<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Binding of Isaac Midrashim</title>
		<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="midrash.css" />
		<script type="text/javascript" src="3_8.js"></script>
	</head>
	<body>
		<h1>Midrash Meets the Binding of Isaac</h1>
		<!--#include virtual="navBar.xhtml" -->
		<div id="tale">
			<section id="page">
				<div id="aside">
					<div id="side">
						<p><label for="rabbi"><input type="checkbox" name="ref" id="rabbi"
								 />Rabbis</label></p>
						<p><label for="character"><input type="checkbox" name="ref" id="character"
								 />Characters</label></p>
						<p><label for="god"><input type="checkbox" name="ref" id="god" />Words for
								God</label></p>
						<p><label for="speech"><input type="checkbox" name="speech" id="speech"
								 />Invented Speech</label></p>
					</div>
				</div>
				<div id="textwrapper">
					<h3> Midrash Tanchuma Vayera 19:1 </h3>
					<p>“And it came to pass after these words that God did prove Abraham” (Gen.
						22:1). Scripture states elsewhere in reference to this verse: “Forasmuch as
						the king’s word hath power; and who may say unto him: “What dost thou?”
						whoso keepeth the commandment shall know no evil thing” (Eccles. 8:4–5).
						What is meant by this verse? Whatsoever the <span class="god">Holy One,
							blessed be He</span>, desires to do, He may do, and none may stay His
						hand. What then can be the meaning of “And who may say unto Him: “What doest
						Thou?” whoso keepeth the commandment, etc.”? These words whoso keepeth the
						commandment allude to the righteous men who perform the commandments of the
							<span class="god">Holy One, blessed be He</span>. And it is their decree
						that He fulfills, as it is written: “Thou shalt also decree a thing and it
						shall be established unto thee, and the light shall shine upon thy ways”
						(Job 22:28). An example of this is what occurred after they made the golden
						calf. Though the <span class="god">Holy One, blessed be He</span>, desired
						to destroy them, our master, <span class="character">Moses</span>,
						restrained the <span class="god">Holy One, blessed be He</span>, as though
						that were possible, just as a man restrains his companion. Hence the <span
							class="god">Holy One, blessed be He</span>, said to him: “And now let Me
						be” (Exod. 32:10). We learn this as well from the verse: “Let Me alone that
						I may destroy them” (Deut. 9:14). Therefore Scripture says: “Who may say
						unto him: “What doest thou?” whoso keepeth the commandment.”</p>
					<h3> Bereishit Rabbah 55:7 </h3>
					<p>“And He said: Take, please, your son, etc.” (22:2). Said <span
							class="character">God</span> to him: “Take, I beg you" — please —Your
						son.” <span class="speech">“Which son? I have two sons”</span> he said.
							<span class="speech">“Your only son,”</span> replied He. <span
							class="speech">“This one is the only one of his mother, and this one is
							the only one of his mother.”</span>
						<span class="speech">“The one you love”</span>—<span class="speech">“Is
							there a limit to the affections?”</span>
						<span class="speech">“<span class="character">Itzchak</span>”</span> said
						He. And why did <span class="character">God</span> not reveal it to him
						without delay? In order to make him (Itzchak) even more beloved in his eyes
						and reward him for each and every word spoken. This agrees with the opinion
						of <span class="rabbi">Rabbi Yohanan</span>, who said: ““Get out of your
						country” (Gen. 12:1) means from your province; “And from your kindred” (Gen.
						12:1)—from your neighborhood; “And from your father’s house”(Gen.
						12:1)—literally your father’s house.” “To the land that I will show you”
						(Gen. 12:1). Why did He not reveal it to him there and then? In order to
						make it more beloved in his eyes and to reward him for each and every word
						said, and for each and every step taken. <span class="rabbi">Rabbi Levi b.
							Hayata</span> said: “‘Get you’ is written twice, and we do not know
						which was more precious (in the eyes of God) the first or the second. But
						when it is written, “And get you to the land of Moriah” (22:2) it follows
						that the second occasion was more precious than the first.” “And go yourself
						to the land of Moriah” <span class="rabbi">Rabbi Chiya Raba</span> and <span
							class="rabbi">Rabbi Yanai</span> (disagree): one says “to the place from
						which instruction (hora’ah) goes out to the world”, and the other says “to
						the place from which awe (yirah) goes out to the world”. Similarly regarding
						the Holy of Holies (devir), <span class="rabbi">Rabbi Chiya</span> and <span
							class="rabbi">Rabbi Yanai</span> (disagree): one says “from the place
						from which the commandments (dibra’ot) go out to the world”, and one says
						“from the place from which speech (dibur) goes out to the world”. Similarly
						regarding the ark (aron), <span class="rabbi">Rabbi Chiya</span> and <span
							class="rabbi">Rabbi Yanai</span> (disagree): one says “to the place from
						which the light (ha’orah) goes out to the world”, and one says “to the place
						where awe (yirah) goes out to the world”. <span class="rabbi">Rabbi Yehoshua
							ben Levi</span> said that “from there the <span class="character">Holy
							One</span> instructs (mor'eh) the nations of the world and brings them
						down (moridam) to Gehinnom.” <span class="rabbi">Rabbi Shimon bar
							Yochai</span> said, “to the place which is aligned (ra'ui) with the Holy
						Temple above. ”<span class="rabbi">Rabbi Yudan</span> said, “to the place
						where there will be an appearance (mar'eh) to you.” <span class="rabbi"
							>Rabbi Pinchas</span> said, “to the place of the <span class="god"
							>Master (marvatah) of the World</span>.” <span class="rabbi">The
							Rabbis</span> said, “to the place where the incense is offered – this is
						what it says “…I will go to the mountain of myrrh and to the hill of
						frankincense.” (Shir HaShirim 4:6) “And offer Him there as a burnt-offering”
						(Gen. 22:2).” <span class="rabbi">Rabbi Yudan bar Simon</span> said: “He
						(Avraham) said to Him: <span class="speech">“<span class="character">Master
								of the Universe</span>! Can there be a sacrifice without a
							priest?”</span> The <span class="character">Holy One of Blessing</span>
						replied <span class="speech">“I have already appointed you to be a
							priest”</span> as it is written, “You are a priest for ever” (Ps.
						110:4). “On one of the mountains which I will tell you of” (Gen. 22:2).”
							<span class="rabbi">Rabbi Huna</span> said in the name of <span
							class="rabbi">Rabbi Eliezer</span> the son of <span class="rabbi">Rabbi
							Yosei HaGelili</span>: “The <span class="character">Holy One of
							Blessing</span> first places the righteous in doubt and suspense, and
						then reveals to them the real meaning of the matter, as it is written “the
						land that I will show you” (Gen. 12:1); “On one of the mountains which I
						will tell you”; “And make to it the proclamation that I bid you” (Jonah
						3:2); similarly, “Arise, go out into the plain and I will there speak with
						you” (Ezek. 3:22).”</p>
					<h3> Midrash Tanchuma Shmini, Siman 2:1 </h3>
					<p>(Lev. 9:1) “And it came to pass on the eighth day….” This text is related (to
						Ps. 75:5), “I say to the merrymakers, ‘Do not make merry….’” What is the
						meaning of (the words), “I say to the merrymakers (rt.: hll), ‘do not make
						merry (rt.: hll)?’”4 (The verse refers) to whoever sings in a mahanaim dance
						(mahol),5 and so it says (in Jud. 21:21), “to dance (lehol) in the dances.”
						(Because no happiness endures for a mortal) (Ps. 75:5), “I say to the
						merrymakers, ‘Do not make merry (rt.: hll).’” Why? The one who is happy
						today shall not be happy tomorrow; and the one who is depressed today shall
						not be depressed tomorrow. And so it says (in Eccl. 2:2), “Of laughter I
						said, ‘It is mad (rt.: hll)….’”6 Are you willing to understand? As behold,
						even the happiness of the <span class="god">Holy One, blessed be He</span>,
						did not endure. When? When the <span class="god">Holy One, blessed be
							He</span>, created His world. He was very happy, as stated (in Ps.
						104:31), “the Lord shall be happy in His works.” It also says (in Gen.
						1:31), “Then God saw everything which He had made; and behold, it was very
						good.” (These verses are) to teach you that the <span class="god">Holy One,
							blessed be He</span>, found pleasure in and took pride in His works.
						Then He gave the first <span class="character">Adam</span> an easy
						commandment, but he did not fulfill it. Immediately He rendered him a
						verdict7 (of death), as stated (in Gen. 3:19), “for dust you are, and unto
						dust you shall return.” So He, as it were, did not remain in His happiness
						but said, <span class="speech">“I created everything only for the human, and
							now he dies. What pleasure is there for Me?”</span> (Now surely if the
						Holy One, blessed be He,) did not remain (happy), how much the less shall
						people (remain happy!) It is therefore stated (in Ps. 75:5), “I say to the
						merrymakers, ‘do not make merry.’” How happy <span class="character"
							>Abraham</span> was! He was blessed in the world, magnified, slew some
						kings and handed over heaven and earth to the <span class="god">Holy One,
							blessed be He</span>. Also when the <span class="god">Holy One, blessed
							be He</span>, gave him a son at age one hundred, he circumcised him and
						reared him. Then finally he was told (in Gen. 22:2), “Please take your son,
						your only son…, and go unto the land of Moriah, and offer him there as a
						burnt offering.” So he made a three-day journey, as stated (in Gen. 22:4),
						“On the third day….” When he returned from Mount Moriah, he buried <span
							class="character">Sarah</span>. He did not find a place to bury her
						until he bought one for four hundred silver shekels. Then after that, old
						age came upon him. Now surely if such was the case with <span
							class="character">Abraham</span> the righteous, how much the more is it
						the case with the wicked! <span class="character">Isaac</span> did not
						remain in his happiness: He escaped from the sword and from the men of
						Gerar. And <span class="god">God</span> informed them about who he was, so
						that they came to him. Thus it is stated (in ), “Then <span
							class="character">Abimelech</span> came unto him from Gerar” and they
						said, “We have clearly seen that the Lord is with you. But he did not remain
						in his happiness. Rather (according to Gen. 27:1), “Now it came to pass,
						that when Isaac was old and his eyes were too weak to see.” So just as (this
						loss of happiness) happened in the case of <span class="character"
							>Isaac</span> the burnt offering of the <span class="god">Holy One,
							blessed be He</span>, (according to Gen. 22:2), how much the more does
						it happen in the case of the wicked! <span class="character">Jacob</span>
						was the first-born of the <span class="god">Holy One, blessed be He</span>,
						as stated (in Exod. 4:22), “Israel is My first-born son.” How happy he was!
						He saw a ladder, and (according to Gen. 28:12-13) “the angels of god were
						ascending and descending (….) And behold, the Lord stood upon it and said, I
						am the Lord….” Then he went to <span class="character">Laban</span>, fled
						from <span class="character">Esau</span>, became <span class="character"
							>Laban</span>'s servant for twenty years and in the end became wealthy,
						sired children and returned in peace. He also met <span class="character"
							>Esau</span> and was saved from him, and paid his vow. But in the end he
						did not remain in his happiness. Instead (according to Gen. 34:1), “Now
						Dinah (the daughter whom Leah had borne to Jacob) went out…,” and was raped.
						There also came upon him the trouble over <span class="character"
							>Joseph</span>. Now surely if <span class="character">Jacob</span> the
						righteous – one to whom the <span class="god">Holy One, blessed be
						He</span>, had said, “In whom I will be glorified,” as stated (in Is. 49:3),
						“Israel, in whom I will be glorified” – did not remain in his happiness, how
						much the less will the wicked (so remain! It is therefore stated (in Ps.
						75:5), “I say to the merrymakers, ‘Do not make merry.’”) How happy <span
							class="character">Joshua</span> was! He slew thirty-one kings, gave
						Israel the land to possess, and distributed it. In addition all Israel gave
						him a (helping) hand and said (in Josh. 1:18), “Anyone who disobeys your
						command… (shall be put to death. Such an honor was)” something of which
						(even) <span class="character">Moses</span> our master did not merit. Still
						he (i.e., <span class="character">Joshua</span>) did not remain in his
						happiness, but rather died childless. It is therefore stated (in Ps. 75:5),
						“I say to the merrymakers, ‘Do not make merry.’” How happy <span
							class="character">Eli</span> was, when he was king, chief justice, and
						high priest! It is so stated (in I Sam. 1:9), “now Eli (the priest) was
						sitting on the throne by the doorpost of the Temple of the Lord.” “Now Eli
						the priest was sitting on the throne,” because he was king. (He was) “by the
						doorpost of the Temple of the Lord,” because he was chief justice. Still he
						did not remain in his happiness. Instead (according to I Sam. 4:18), “And it
						came to pass that when he (i.e., a messenger) mentioned the ark of God, he
						(i.e., Eli) fell backward from off the throne….” Moreover, his two sons,
							<span class="character">Hophni</span> and <span class="character"
							>Phinehas</span> died. So just as this (shift in fortune) happened with
							<span class="character">Eli</span> the righteous, how much the more
						(does it happen with) the wicked! You find neither man nor woman who saw
						joys like <span class="character">Elisheba bat Amminadab</span>, (the wife
						of <span class="character">Aaron</span>, as stated (in Exod. 6:23), “And
						Aaron took for a wife Elisheba bat Amminadab”).8 She saw her husband become
						high priest serving in the high priesthood and (as a) prophet. In addition,
							<span class="character">Moses</span>, her husband's brother, was king
						and prophet. Moreover, her sons were deputies (to the high priest) in the
						priesthood, and her brother <span class="character">Nahshon</span> was head
						of all of the princes of Israel.9 Still she did not remain in her happiness.
						Rather, when two of her sons went in to offer a sacrifice, (according to
						Lev. 10:2,) “Fire came forth from before the Lord and consumed them, so that
						they died before the Lord.” It is therefore stated (in Ps. 75:5), “I say to
						the merrymakers, ‘Do not make merry.’” And so <span class="character"
							>Solomon</span> said (in Eccl. 2:2), “Of laughter I said, ‘It is mad.’”
						There is a story about one of the great Babylonian (scholars), who married
						off his son,10 and made a great banquet for the sages. He said to his son,
						“Go up and bring us a jar of such and such a wine from the attic.” He went
						up to the attic. (There) a snake (from) among the jars bit him, and he died.
						His father remained with those who were reclining (at his table). So he
						delayed and did not come. (Finally,) his father said, “Let me go up and see
						what my son is doing.” His father went up (and) found him cast down dead
						among the jars. What did that saint do? He waited by himself until the
						guests had eaten and drunk sufficiently. When they had finished, he said,
						“You came to say a bridegrooms' blessing over my son. (But instead) say a
						mourners' blessing over him. You came to bring my son to the wedding canopy.
						(Instead) bring him to (his) grave.” They said about <span class="rabbi">R.
							Zakkay of Kabul</span> and they opened about him (in the words of Eccl.
						2:2), “Of laughter I said, ‘It is mad; and what does joy do?’””</p>
					<h3> Midrash Tanchuma Buber Vayera 46:9 </h3>
					<p>Another interpretation (of Gen. 22:6, cont.): “SO BOTH OF THEM WENT OFF
						TOGETHER”. <span class="rabbi">R. Abbin Berabbi the Levite</span> said:
						“While they were walking, <span class="character">Satan</span> came to <span
							class="character">Isaac</span> on his right hand and said: <span
							class="speech">“Alas, wretched son of a wretched woman, how many fasts
							did your mother fast until you came? 172 Now the old man has gone mad in
							his old age, and here he is going to slaughter you.”</span>
						<span class="character">Isaac</span> turned back and said to his father:
							<span class="speech">“Look at what this one is saying to me!”</span> He
						said to him: <span class="speech">“He has come to confuse you, but the <span
								class="god">Holy One</span> shall not confuse us”</span>, as stated
						(in Gen. 22:8): “GOD WILL SEE TO THE LAMB FOR A BURNT OFFERING”. So
						nevertheless (according to Gen. 22:6): “SO BOTH OF THEM WENT OFF TOGETHER”.
						How old was <span class="character">Isaac</span>? He was thirty-seven years
						old.173”</p>
					<h3> Bereishit Rabbah 56:4 </h3>
					<p>“And Itzchak spoke to Avraham his father, and said: My father” (Gen. 22:7).
							<span class="character">Samael</span> went to the our father <span
							class="character">Avraham</span> and said: <span class="speech">“Old
							man, old man! Have you lost your mind (lit. have you lost your heart)?
							You are going to slay a son given to you at the age of a
							hundred!”</span>
						<span class="speech">“Even this I do,”</span> replied he. (<span
							class="character">Samael</span> said:) <span class="speech">“And if He
							sets you an even greater test, can you stand it?!”</span> (as it is
						written) “If a thing be put to you as a trial, will you be wearied” (Job
						4:2)? <span class="speech">“Even more than this,”</span> he replied. (<span
							class="character">Samael</span> said:) <span class="speech">“Tomorrow He
							will say to you, “You are guilty of murder, you murdered your
							son!””</span> He replied: <span class="speech">“Still I go”</span>.
						Seeing that he could achieve nothing with him, he approached <span
							class="character">Itzchak</span> and said: <span class="speech">“Son of
							an unhappy mother! He is going to slay you!”</span> He replied: <span
							class="speech">“Still I go”</span>. <span class="character"
							>Samael</span> said: <span class="speech">“If so, all those fine tunics
							which your mother made be a legacy for <span class="character"
								>Ishmael</span>, the hated of her house, and you don't care (lit.
							don't let it enter your heart)?”</span> If a word is not completely
						effective, it may yet be effective in part, that’s why it is written, “And
						Itzchak spoke to Avraham his father, and said: My father”: why (his) father,
						(my) father twice? So that he should be filled with compassion for him. “And
						he said: Behold, the fire and the wood.” <span class="character"
							>Avraham</span> said to him: <span class="speech">“May that man who has
							thus seduced him be drowned! Any way, “God will provide himself the
							lamb, my son”; and if not you are “the lamb for the burnt-offering my
							son.””</span> So “"they went both of them together"” (Gen. 22:8) — one
						to slaughter and the other to be slaughtered.</p>
					<h3> Bereishit Rabbah 56:8 </h3>
					<p>Another explanation: <span class="rabbi">Rabbi Itzchak</span> said, “At the
						time that <span class="character">Avraham</span> sought to bind <span
							class="character">Itzchak</span>, his son, (the latter) said to him,
							<span class="speech">“Father, I am a young man and I am concerned lest
							my body shake from fear of the knife and I will trouble you, and lest
							the slaughtering will be invalid and it will not be considered a
							sacrifice for you. Rather, tie me very well.”</span> Immediately, “and
						he bound Itzchak.” Could he really tie up a man of thirty-seven (a different
						version: of twenty six years)? Rather, it was with his agreement.
						Immediately. “And Avraham sent his hand.” He sends his hand to take the
						knife and his eyes brings down tears and the tears fall onto the eyes of
							<span class="character">Itzchak</span> from the mercy of his father. And
						nonetheless, the heart was happy to do the will of <span class="god">his
							Maker</span>. And the angels gathered in many groups above them. What
						did they yell out? “The ways have become desolate, the wayfarer has ceased;
						He has rescinded His covenant; He has become disgusted with the cities”
						(Isaiah 33:7) – He does not desire Jerusalem and the Temple that he had in
						mind to bequeath to the children of <span class="character">Itzchak</span>.
						'He did not consider a man' – merit did not stand <span class="character"
							>Avraham</span> well: 'No creation has importance in front of Me.'”
							<span class="rabbi">Rabbi Acha</span> said, “<span class="character"
							>Avraham</span> started to wonder, <span class="speech">“These words are
							only words of wonder. Yesterday, you told me (Genesis 21:12), “Because
							in Itzchak will your seed be called.” And (then) you went back and said,
							“Please take your son.” And now You say to me, “Do not send your hand to
							the youth.” It is a wonder!”</span> The <span class="god">Holy One,
							blessed be He</span>, said, <span class="speech">“'<span
								class="character">Avraham</span>, “I will not profane My covenant
							and the utterances of My lips, I will not change” (Psalms 89:35) – When
							I said, “Please take your son,” I did not say, "slaughter him," but
							rather, "and bring him up." For the sake of love did I say (it) to you:
							I said to you, "Bring him up," and you have fulfilled My words. And now,
							bring him down.’”</span> (A different version: They said a parable about
						a king that said to his friend, <span class="speech">“Bring up your son to
							my table.”</span> His friend brought him up and his knife was in his
						hand. The king said, <span class="speech">“And did I say to you, "Bring him
							up to eat him?" I said to you, "Bring him up"”</span> – (and this was)
						because of (the king's) love.) This is (the meaning of) what is written
						(Jeremiah 19:5), “it did not come up on My heart” – that is <span
							class="character">Itzchak</span>.)”</p>
					<h3> Bereishit Rabbah 56:7 </h3>
					<p>“And the angel of Ad-nai called to him out of heaven, and said: Abraham,
						Abraham” (Gen. 22:11). <span class="rabbi">Rabbi Hiya</span> taught: “This
						is an expression of love, this is an expression of urging.” <span
							class="rabbi">Rabbi Eliezer ben Yaakov</span> said: “He spoke to him and
						to future generations, there is no generation which does not contain people
						like <span class="character">Avraham</span>, and there is no generation
						which does not contain people like <span class="character">Yaakov</span>,
							<span class="character">Moshe</span>, and <span class="character"
							>Shmuel</span>. “And he said: "Do not lay your hand etc."” (Gen. 22:12)
						Where was the knife? Three tears had fallen from the angels of service and
						the knife dissolved. <span class="character">Avraham</span> said: <span
							class="speech">“I will strangle him,”</span> He said: “Do not lay your
						hand upon the lad.” (<span class="character">Avraham</span>) said <span
							class="speech">“I will take a drop of blood from him”</span> - He said
						to him: ‘Neither do anything (me'uma) to him’ (meaning) inflict no blemish
						(muma) upon him. "Because now I know" (meaning) I have made it known to all
						that you love Me, “"and you have not withheld, etc"”. And do not say that
						all ills that do not affect one’s own body are not ills, rather I ascribe
						merit to you as though I had told to you to sacrifice yourself and you did
						not refuse.”</p>
					<h3> Midrash Tanchuma Vayera 23:9 </h3>
					<p>The <span class="god">Holy One, blessed be He</span>, answered: “You have
						spoken what was in you heart, now I will say what I wish to say. In the
						future <span class="character">Isaac</span>’s descendants will sin against
						Me, and I will judge them on Rosh Hashanah. If they want Me to discover
						something to their credit, and to recall for their advantage the binding of
							<span class="character">Isaac</span>, let them blow upon this shofar.”
							<span class="character">Abraham</span> asked: <span class="speech">“What
							shofar?”</span> The <span class="god">Holy One, blessed be He</span>,
						said: “Turn around.” Then it was that <span class="character">Abraham</span>
						lifted up his eyes, and looked, and behold, behind a ram caught in the
						thicket by his horns (Gen. 22:13). This was one of the ten things that were
						created at twilight.17</p>
					<h3> Sefer HaYashar (midrash) Book of Genesis, Vayera 18 </h3>
					<p>And while <span class="character">Abraham</span> was pursuing his journey
						with his son <span class="character">Isaac</span>, behold <span
							class="character">Satan</span> came and ‎appeared to <span
							class="character">Abraham</span> in the figure of a very old man, of a
						very modest and humble spirit. And ‎ approaching <span class="character"
							>Abraham</span> he said unto him: <span class="speech">“Art thou a fool
							or an idiot that thou goest to do such a ‎thing this day and even to thy
							only son? For behold the <span class="god">Lord</span> had given him
							unto thee in the last of thy days and in thy old age, and now wilt thou
							go and slaughter him without any wrong ‎action of his, and destroy the
							life of thy only son? Knowest thou not, and hast thou not heard ‎of it,
							that such a thing could never have come from the <span class="god"
								>Lord</span>, for the <span class="god">Lord</span> hath never done
							‎unto man a great evil like this upon the earth to say unto a man go and
							slay thy son?”</span> And ‎<span class="character">Abraham</span>
						hearing these words knew at once that it was the voice of <span
							class="character">Satan</span> who attempted to ‎lead him astray from
						the way of the <span class="god">Lord</span>, and <span class="character"
							>Abraham</span> refused to hearken to the voice of ‎<span
							class="character">Satan</span>. And <span class="character"
							>Abraham</span> rebuked him severely and <span class="character"
							>Satan</span> went away from him. And <span class="character"
							>Satan</span> soon ‎returned and came to <span class="character"
							>Isaac</span>, appearing unto him in the guise of a young man of good
						figure ‎and pleasant looks. And he approached <span class="character"
							>Isaac</span> and said unto him: <span class="speech">“Knowest thou or
							hast thou ‎heard of it, that thy old and foolish father carries thee to
							the slaughter to-day without any cause? And now, my boy, do not listen
							unto him and do not obey him, for he is old and foolish, ‎and do not
							suffer thy precious life and thy handsome person to perish from the
							earth.”</span> And ‎when <span class="character">Isaac</span> had heard
						these words he turned unto <span class="character">Abraham</span> saying:
							<span class="speech">“Hast thou heard, oh, my ‎father, the words of this
							man, such and such are his remarks.”</span> And <span class="character"
							>Abraham</span> answered unto his ‎son <span class="character"
							>Isaac</span> saying: <span class="speech">“Beware of him my son, do not
							listen unto his word and pay no attention unto ‎him, for that is <span
								class="character">Satan</span>, who is resolved to turn us this day
							from following the commandments of ‎our <span class="god"
							>Lord</span>.”</span> And <span class="character">Abraham</span> rebuked
							<span class="character">Satan</span> once more, and he went away from
						them. And when ‎<span class="character">Satan</span> saw that he could not
						succeed in that manner, he disappeared suddenly and went on ‎before them on
						their road, and changed himself into a mighty river full of water on the
						road. ‎And when <span class="character">Abraham</span> and <span
							class="character">Isaac</span> and his two young men reached that place
						they saw a river, ‎large and very powerful like unto the mighty waters. And
						they went into the river, the waters ‎of which reached up to their legs and
						they passed on through it. But the waters grew always ‎deeper and reached
						finally to their necks, when they were all terrified on account of the
						‎water. And as they passed on <span class="character">Abraham</span> at once
						recognized the place, and <span class="character">Abraham</span> knew that
						‎there hath never been a river before on that place. And <span
							class="character">Abraham</span> said unto his son <span
							class="character">Isaac</span>: <span class="speech">“I ‎know this place
							well and there hath never been before neither a river nor any water, and
							it is ‎only the work of <span class="character">Satan</span>, who is
							doing these things in order to turn us this day from the ‎commandments
							of the <span class="god">Lord</span>.”</span> And <span
							class="character">Abraham</span> rebuked <span class="character"
							>Satan</span> saying unto him: <span class="speech">“May the <span
								class="god">Lord</span> ‎rebuke thee, oh <span class="character"
								>Satan</span>, get thee behind us for we are following the order of
							our <span class="god">Lord</span>.”</span> And ‎<span class="character"
							>Satan</span> became terrified at <span class="character"
						>Abraham</span>'s voice and he departed from them,</p>
					<h3> Sefer HaYashar (midrash) Book of Genesis, Vayera 21 </h3>
					<p>And <span class="character">Abraham</span> slew the ram upon the altar for a
						burnt offering before the <span class="god">Lord</span> instead of his ‎son
							<span class="character">Isaac</span>; and <span class="character"
							>Abraham</span> sprinkled of the blood of the ram upon the altar, and he
						exclaimed, ‎saying: <span class="speech">“This is instead of my son, and may
							it be considered as the blood of my son before the ‎<span class="god"
								>Lord</span>, even on this day”</span>; and whatsoever <span
							class="character">Abraham</span> performed upon that occasion he always
						‎accompanied it by these words: <span class="speech">“This is in the place
							of my son, and may it be considered this ‎day before the <span
								class="god">Lord</span> in place of my son.”</span> And when <span
							class="character">Abraham</span> had completed the services at the
						‎altar, and the offering was accepted by the <span class="god">Lord</span>,
						it was actually considered as if it had been ‎<span class="character"
							>Isaac</span> that was sacrificed. And the <span class="god">Lord</span>
						blessed <span class="character">Abraham</span> and his seed on that day. And
							<span class="character">Satan</span> ‎hurried unto <span
							class="character">Sarah</span> and appeared unto her in the guise of a
						very humble and lowly old man, ‎while <span class="character">Abraham</span>
						was still performing his duties at the altar before the Lord. And <span
							class="character">Satan</span> said unto ‎<span class="character"
							>Sarah</span>: <span class="speech">“Knowest thou not the work that
								<span class="character">Abraham</span> hath done with thine only son
							to-day? Verily, ‎he hath taken <span class="character">Isaac</span> and
							built an altar and killed him and brought him for a burnt offering upon
							‎the altar; and <span class="character">Isaac</span> was weeping and
							praying before his father, but he never heeded his cries ‎and he had no
							mercy upon him.‎‏”</span> ‏And after repeating his story, <span
							class="character">Satan</span> departed from <span class="character"
							>Sarah</span>; and ‎<span class="character">Sarah</span> having heard
						these words of <span class="character">Satan</span>, took him for one of the
						sons of man who had been ‎with her son and who had come to tell her these
						words.‎‏ ‏And <span class="character">Sarah</span> lifted up her voice and
						she ‎wept and cried bitterly over the loss of her son; and she lay down upon
						the ground and she ‎scattered dust upon her head, and she exclaimed: <span
							class="speech">“Oh, my son, <span class="character">Isaac</span> | oh,
							my son would that I ‎had died to-day in thy place |”</span> And she
						continued weeping and crying: <span class="speech">“It grieves me for thy
							‎sake, oh, my son I Would that I had died to-day in thy place!”</span>
						And she kept on lamenting, and ‎she said: <span class="speech">“It grieves
							me for thy sake, now after I have raised thee and brought thee up, my
							joy ‎hath been turned into mourning for thee, I who was yearning for
							thee, I who have been crying ‎and praying to the <span class="god"
								>Lord</span> for thee until I bare thee at the age of ninety years,
							and now hast thou ‎been given up to-day to the knife and to the fire to
							be made a burnt offering; yet I will take ‎comfort, my son, in the
							thought that all hath been caused by the word of the <span class="god"
								>Lord</span>, as thou ‎hast performed the commandment of thy <span
								class="god">God</span>, and who can rebel against the word of <span
								class="god">God</span> in ‎whose hand is the soul of every living
							creature? Thou art just, O <span class="god">Lord our God</span>, and
							all thy ‎works are justice and righteousness; and I am exceedingly glad
							at the words of thy command, ‎and though mine eye weepeth, my heart
							rejoiceth within me.”</span>‎‏ ‏And <span class="character">Sarah</span>
						placed her head ‎upon the bosom of one of her maid servants and she became
						silent like a rock. And soon after ‎she arose and went about to make
						inquiries until she reached Hebron. And she questioned ‎every passer-by that
						she met on the road, but no one could tell her anything concerning the ‎fate
						of her son.‎</p>
				</div>
			</section>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
