<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Binding of Isaac</title>
		<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="midrash.css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<h1>The Binding of Isaac</h1>
		<!--#include virtual="navBar.xhtml" -->
		<h3>Genesis 22:1-19</h3>
		<p>1 Some time afterward, God put Abraham to the test. He said to him, 
			“Abraham,” and he answered, “Here I am.”</p>
		<p>2 And He said, “Take your son, your favored one, Isaac, whom you love, and go 
			to the land of Moriah, and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the 
			heights that I will point out to you.”</p>
		<p>3 So early next morning, Abraham saddled his ass and took with him two of his 
			servants and his son Isaac. He split the wood for the burnt offering, and he set 
			out for the place of which God had told him.</p>
		<p>4 On the third day Abraham looked up and saw the place from afar.</p>
		<p>5 Then Abraham said to his servants, “You stay here with the ass. The boy and 
			I will go up there; we will worship and we will return to you.”</p>
		<p>6 Abraham took the wood for the burnt offering and put it on his son Isaac. 
			He himself took the firestone and the knife; and the two walked off 
			together.</p>
		<p>7 Then Isaac said to his father Abraham, “Father!” And he answered, “Yes, 
			my son.” And he said, “Here are the firestone and the wood; but where is 
			the sheep for the burnt offering?”</p>
		<p>8 And Abraham said, “God will see to the sheep for His burnt offering, my 
			son.” And the two of them walked on together.</p>
		<p>9 They arrived at the place of which God had told him. Abraham built an 
			altar there; he laid out the wood; he bound his son Isaac; he laid him on the 
			altar, on top of the wood.</p>
		<p>10 And Abraham picked up the knife to slay his son.</p>
		<p>11 Then an angel of the LORD called to him from heaven: “Abraham! Abraham!” 
			And he answered, “Here I am.”</p>
		<p>12 And he said, “Do not raise your hand against the boy, or do anything to 
			him. For now I know that you fear God, since you have not withheld your 
			son, your favored one, from Me.”</p>
		<p>13 When Abraham looked up, his eye fell upon a ram, caught in the thicket 
			by its horns. So Abraham went and took the ram and offered it up as a 
			burnt offering in place of his son.</p>
		<p>14 And Abraham named that site Adonai-yireh, whence the present saying, 
			“On the mount of the LORD there is vision.”</p>
		<p>15 The angel of the LORD called to Abraham a second time from heaven,</p>
		<p>16 and said, “By Myself I swear, the LORD declares: Because you have done 
			this and have not withheld your son, your favored one,</p>
		<p>17 I will bestow My blessing upon you and make your descendants as numerous 
			as the stars of heaven and the sands on the seashore; and your descendants 
			shall seize the gates of their foes.</p>
		<p>18 All the nations of the earth shall bless themselves by your descendants, 
			because you have obeyed My command.”</p>
		<p>19 Abraham then returned to his servants, and they departed together for 
			Beer-sheba; and Abraham stayed in Beer-sheba.</p>
	</body>
</html>