<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Midrash History</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="midrash.css" />
    </head>
    <body>
       <h1>Midrash History</h1>
        <!--#include virtual="navBar.xhtml" -->
    	<div id="pagecontent"><p>The Midrashim are ancient rabbinic texts in which Rabbis works through the 
		texts of the Torah to create connections between both different parts of the 
		texts and between the text and real life in order to explore religious questions 
		that appear in every-day life. There are two types of Midrash, Midrash Halacha, and 
		Midrash Aggadah. The Midrash Halacha focus on topics relating to law and religious 
		practices and the Midrash Aggadah focus on interpreting the stories in the Torah 
		and through this exploring theological and practical religious questions and 
		creating parables and lessons.</p> 
		<p>The Midrash Aggadah are texts that were compiled mostly between 200 and 1000 AD. 
		We choose to look at these texts because we decided to focus on specific verses in 
		the Torah and how they are connected to others by the rabbinic writers. We also 
		looked at a couple of Midrash Halacha because we were also interested in looking at 
		the more legal and practical side of what happens in these verses.</p>
		<p>Midrash are still being written today and their long history is a fascinating 
		story in itself. Today a lot of effort is put into translating the midrash and 
		digitizing the translations in databases such as <i>sefaria.org</i> to make them more 
		accessible to the public.</p></div>
    </body>
</html>