<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Psalm 24 Midrashim</title>
		<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="midrash.css" />
		<script type="text/javascript" src="3_8.js"></script>
	</head>
	<body>
		<h1>Midrash Meets Psalm 24</h1>
		<!--#include virtual="navBar.xhtml" -->
			<div id="tale">
				<section id="page">
				<div id="aside">
					<div id="side">
						<p><label for="rabbi"><input type="checkbox" name="ref" id="rabbi"
								 />Rabbis</label></p>
						<p><label for="character"><input type="checkbox" name="ref" id="character"
								 />Characters</label></p>
						<p><label for="god"><input type="checkbox" name="ref" id="god" />Words for
								God</label></p>
						<p><label for="speech"><input type="checkbox" name="speech" id="speech"
								 />Invented Speech</label></p>
					</div>
				</div>
				<div id="textwrapper">
					<h3> Midrash Ein Yaakov Glick Edition Rosh Hashanah 4:1 </h3>
					<p>(Fol. 31) We are taught in a Baraitha: <span class="rabbi">R. Juda</span>
						said, in the name of <span class="rabbi">R. Akiba</span>: “What (song) did
						(the Levites) chant on the first day of the week? (Ps. 24) “The earth is the
						Lord's and the fulness thereof, because He (the Lord, in establishing the
						world) took possession and gave (His creatures) possession (invested them
						with life), and (became) the Sovereign of the world.” What did they sing on
						the second day? (Ib. 48) “Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised,
						because (on that day) He divided His works (the heavens from the earth) and
						reigned over them.” On the third day they sang (Ib. 82) <span class="god"
							>God</span> standeth in the congregation of the mighty, because (on that
						day) He, in His wisdom, caused the earth to be revealed and the world to be
						prepared for its occupants. On the fourth day they sang (Ib. 94) O <span
							class="god">Lord</span>, to whom retribution belongeth, because (on that
						day) He created the sun and moon, and in the future He will punish those who
						would worship them. On the fifth day they sang (Ib. 81) Sing aloud unto
							<span class="god">God</span>, our strength, because (on that day) He
						created the birds and the fishes (which bring) praise to His name. On the
						sixth day they sang, (Ib. 93) The <span class="god">Lord</span> reigneth. He
						is clothed in majesty, because (on that day) He finished His works and
						became sovereign over them. On the seventh day they sang (Ib. 92) A psalm, a
						song, for the Sabbath day; i.e., for the day that is a perfect rest.” <span
							class="rabbi">R. Nechemia</span> said : “What reason had <span
							class="rabbi">R. Akiba </span>to make distinctions among these sections,
						(for the last refers to a future event, while all the others refer to the
						past)? We must therefore say that they sang that psalm on the Sabbath day,
						because He rested.” This is contrary to the opinion of <span class="rabbi"
							>R. K'tina</span>, for <span class="rabbi">R. K'tina</span> said: “The
						world will last six thousand years, and one thousand years it will be waste;
						as it is said (Is. 2, 11) And exalted shall be the <span class="god"
							>Lord</span> alone on that day"” <span class="rabbi">Abaye</span>,
						however, said: “Two thousand years it will waste; as it is said (Hos. 6, 2)
						He will revive us after two days.”</p>
					<h3> Midrash Ein Yaakov Glick Edition Berakhot 6:2 </h3>
					<p>Our Rabbis taught: “It is prohibited to enjoy anything of this world without
						saving a benediction, and he who enjoys (the least thing) in this world
						without saving a benediction defrauds (<span class="god">the Lord</span>).
						What shall his remedy be? Let him go to a learned man.” What can a learned
						man do for him when he already has transgressed the prohibition? “But,” said
							<span class="rabbi">Raba</span>, “let him go unto a learned man first;
						study the laws of benedictions that he may avoid sacrilege.” <span
							class="rabbi">R. Juda</span> said in the name of <span class="character"
							>Samuel</span> : “He who enjoys (the least thing) in this world without
						having said a benediction is considered as if he had enjoyed something of
						the things dedicated to Heaven, for it is said (Ps. 24, 1.) Unto the <span
							class="god">Lord</span> belongeth the earth and all that filleth it.”
							<span class="rabbi">R. Levi</span> pointed out the following
						contradiction: “It is written (Ib. ib.) Unto the <span class="god"
							>Lord</span> belongeth the earth and all that filleth it, and it is also
						written (Ib. 115, I6.) The Heavens are the Heavens of the <span class="god"
							>Lord</span>; but the earth hath He given to the children of man. It is
						not difficult to reconcile (these two verses). The former refers to the time
						before he pronounced the benediction (it still belongs to Heaven), (Ib. b.)
						and the latter refers to the time after he pronounced the benediction (then
						it belongs to man)."” <span class="rabbi">R. Chanina b. Papa</span> said:
						“He who enjoys (anything) in this world without saying a benediction is
						considered as if he has robbed the <span class="god">Holy One, praised be
							He</span>! and the Congregation of Israel, for it is said (Pr. 28, 24.)
						Whoso robbeth his father or his mother and saith it is no transgression, he
						is the companion of a destroyer. His father, refers to the <span class="god"
							>Holy One, praised be He</span>! as it is said (Deu. 32, 6.) Is He not
						thy father who hath bought thee; Or his mother, refers to nothing else but
						the Congregation of Israel., as it is said (Pr. 1, 8.) Hear, my son, the
						instructions of your father and cast not aside the teaching of your mother.”
						What is meant by He is a companion of a destroyer? <span class="rabbi">R.
							Chanina b. Papa</span> said: “He is a companion of <span
							class="character">Jeroboam</span>, the son of <span class="character"
							>Nebat</span>, who has corrupted Israel in their relation to their <span
							class="god">Heavenly Father</span>."”</p>
					<h3> Midrash Ein Yaakov Glick Edition Shabbat 16:12 </h3>
					<p>
						<span class="character">Joseph</span>, who honored the Sabbath, had a very
						rich neighbor. This neighbor was told by the Chaldeans (soothsayers) that
						all his wealth would eventually be eaten up by <span class="character"
							>Joseph</span>. The neighbor, therefore, sold his estate and with the
						proceeds bought a large diamond, which he fixed in his turban. One day,
						while crossing a bridge, a gust of wind blew his turban into the water and a
						fish swallowed it. This fish (being caught) was brought (to the market) on a
						Friday. “Who wants to buy fish to-day?” they inquired. They were told to go
						to <span class="character">Joseph</span>, who honors the Sabbath and usually
						buys fish that day. So they brought the fish to him and he bought it. When
						the fish was cut up, the jewel was found and <span class="character"
							>Joseph</span> sold it for thirteen purses of gold denarim. When that
						old man met him, he said to <span class="character">Joseph</span>: “He, who
						lends to the Sabbath (incurring additional expenses in its honor) the
						Sabbath will repay.” <span class="character">Rabbi</span> asked <span
							class="rabbi">R. Ishmael</span>, the son of <span class="rabbi">R.
							Jose</span>, “What merited the rich people of Palestine who become so
						wealthy?” He answered thus: “Because they gave their tithes in due season,
						as it is said (Deu. 14, 22.) Thou shalt tithe the tithe, i.e., give tithes,
						in order that thou mayest become rich."” “What merited the rich of Babylon
						(where people are exempt from tithes) ?” “Because,” said <span class="rabbi"
							>R. Ishmael</span>, “they honor the Torah.” “And what merited the rich
						of other countries that made them so wealthy ?” “Because,” said he, “they
						honored the Sabbath; for <span class="rabbi">R. Chiya b. Abba</span> said:“I
						sojourned once with a wealthy man in Ludki. and I saw that they brought
						before him a golden table carried by sixteen men, and having sixteen silver
						links depending from it ; in these links were fixed bowls, cups, pitchers
						and dishes, all filled with various kinds of victuals, and all sorts of rare
						fruits and spices. When setting the table, they said: Unto the <span
							class="god">Lord</span> belongs the earth with what filleth it (Ps. 24,
						1). And when they removed the table, they said The heavens are the heavens
						of the <span class="god">Lord</span>; but the earth hath he given to the
						children of men (Ib. 115, 16). I said to him “My son, how have you merited
						this prosperity?” He said to me: “I was formerly a butcher, and I always
						selected the finest cattle to be slaughtered for the Sabbath.” I then said
						to him : “Happy art thou for being so merited and blessed be the <span
							class="god">Lord</span> who hath rewarded thee with all this.”””</p>
					<h3> Midrash Ein Yaakov Glick Edition Bava Batra 5:23 </h3>
					<p>When <span class="rabbi">R. Dimi</span> came from Palestine, he said in the
						name of <span class="rabbi">R. Jonathan</span>, “what is the meaning of the
						passage (Ps. 24, 2) For upon seas he hath founded it, and upon rivers he
						hath established it? i.e. the seven seas and four rivers which surround the
						land of Israel (Palestine), the seven seas are the seas of Tiberia, Sodom,
						Chirat, Chiltha, Sipchi, Aspamia, and the ocean; and the four rivers are
						Jordan, Jarmuch, Kirumyun, and Phiga.” When <span class="rabbi">R.
							Dimi</span> came, he said in the name of <span class="rabbi">R.
							Jonathan</span> : “In the future the angel <span class="character"
							>Gabriel</span> (Fol. 75) will go hunting for the <span
							class="character">leviathan</span>, as it is said (Job 40, 25) Canst
						thou draw out the crocodile (leviathan) with a fishhook or cause his tongue
						to sink into the baited rope? And if not for the help of the <span
							class="god">Holy One, praised be He</span>! he would not conquer him, as
						it is said (Ib.) He is the first in rank . . . he that hath made him can
						alone bring his sword near to him.” When <span class="rabbi">R. Dimi</span>
						came, he said also in the name of <span class="rabbi">R. Jochanan</span> :
						“When the <span class="character">leviathan</span> becomes hungry, he expels
						from his mouth a gas which makes all the waters in the deep boil, as it is
						said (Ib. 41, 23) He maketh the deep to boil like a pot. And should he put
						his head in paradise, not one of the creatures could withstand the bad smell
						of the gas, as it is said (Ib.) He maketh the sea like a seething mixture.
						And when he gets thirsty, he makes the sea hollow like beds, as it is said:
						Behind him he causeth his pathway to shine.” And <span class="rabbi">R. Acha
							b. Jacob</span> said: “The deep does not come to its natural way before
						seventy years, as it is said (Ib.) Men esteem the deep to be hoary — and
						hoary is not less than seventy years."”</p>
					<h3> Midrash Ein Yaakov Glick Edition Moed Katan 1:4 </h3>
					<p>(Ib. 9) But whence do we learn that one joy must not be mixed with another?
						Said <span class="rabbi">R. Juda</span> in the name of <span
							class="character">Samuel</span> : “It is written (I Kings 8, 65) And
							<span class="character">Solomon</span> held at the time the feast, etc.,
						seven days and seven days, even fourteen days. Now, if it be true that one
						joy may be mixed with another, why then did <span class="character"
							>Solomon</span> not postpone his feast until the festival ; for then the
						seven days of the festival would have served for both?” <span class="rabbi"
							>R. Parnach</span>, in the name of <span class="rabbi">R.
							Jochanan</span>, said : “In that year the Israelites had not observed
						the Day of Atonement and they were perturbed over the sin that might cause
						them destruction. Whereupon a heavenly voice came forth and said unto them:
							<span class="speech">“All of you are destined for the future
							world”</span>"” And whence do we learn that they were pardoned for that
						sin? <span class="rabbi">R. Tachlipha</span> was taught.</p>
					<h3> Midrash Ein Yaakov Glick Edition Shabat 2:10 </h3>
					<p>(Fol. 30a) The following question was asked of <span class="rabbi">R. Tanchum
							of Noy</span>: “Is it permissible to extinguish the light on the Sabbath
						for the sake of a sick person ?” He began his answer by saying: “O thou
							<span class="character">King Solomon</span>! Where is thy wisdom and
						where is thy understanding? Not only do the words contradict your father's
						words but (they are at variance with) thine own utterances also. Thy father
							<span class="character">David</span> said (Ps. 116, 17.) Not the dead
						can praise the <span class="god">Lord</span>, and thou sayest (Ecc. 4, 2.)
						Thereupon praise I the dead that are already dead, and again thou sayest
						(Ib. 9., 4.) “For a living dog fareth better than a dead lion”. But this is
						not difficult to explain. When <span class="character">David</span> said.
						Not the dead can praise the <span class="god">Lord</span>, he meant thus:
							<span class="speech">“A man should always occupy himself with the study
							of the Torah and meritorious deeds before he dies; for, as soon as he
							dies, he becomes free from the obligation of (studying) the Torah and
							(fulfilling) meritorious deeds and the <span class="god">Holy One,
								praised be He</span>! accepts no praise of him.”</span> This is what
							<span class="rabbi">R. Jochanan</span> said : “'What is meant by the
						passage (Ps. 88, 61.) Free among the dead, i.e., as soon as a man dies he is
						freed from the obligation of (studying) the Torah and (fulfilling)
						meritorious deeds, And when <span class="character">Solomon</span> says
						(Ecc. 4. 2.) “Thereupon praise I the dead that are already dead,” he refers
						to the time when Israel sinned in the deserts. <span class="character"
							>Moses</span> stood up before the <span class="god">Holy One, praised be
							He</span>! and offered many prayers and supplications unto Him but was
						not answered. However, as soon as he said (Ex 32, 13.) Remember <span
							class="character">Abraham</span>, <span class="character">Isaac</span>
						and <span class="character">Israel</span>, Thy servants, he was forthwith
						answered. Now, did not <span class="character">Solomon</span> say properly
						“Thereupon praise I the dead that are already dead.””” It may be explained
						in another way also. The usage of the world is that if a mortal prince issue
						a decree, it is doubtful whether it will be complied with or not; even if it
						be complied with while the prince lives it may not be complied with when he
						is dead. But <span class="character">Moses</span>, our teacher, has issued
						many decrees and established many ordinances and they endure forever and
						ever. Now did not <span class="character">Solomon</span> say properly (Ecc.
						4, 2.) “Thereupon praise I the dead that are already dead!” The passage,
						“Thereupon praise I the dead”, etc., may also be explained in another way,
						as <span class="rabbi">R. Juda</span> said in the name of <span
							class="rabbi">Rab</span> ; for <span class="rabbi">R. Juda</span> in the
						name of <span class="rabbi">Rab</span> said : “What is meant by the passage
						(Ps. 86, 17.) “Display on me a sign for good that those who hate me may see
						it”. Thus said <span class="character">David</span> before the <span
							class="god">Holy One, praised be He</span>! <span class="speech">“<span
								class="god">Sovereign of the universe</span>, forgive me this sin
							(of <span class="character">Bath Sheba</span>).'”</span>
						<span class="speech">“Thou art forgiven.”</span> answered the <span
							class="god">Lord</span>. <span class="character">David</span> then said
						to the <span class="god">Lord</span> : “Show me a sign while I live.”
						Whereupon He answered, “During thy life I shall not make it known but during
						the life of <span class="character">Solomon</span>, thy son, I shall make it
						known.” When <span class="character">Solomon</span> had built the Temple he
						desired to place the ark in the holy of holies, but the gates had become
						fastened to each other (and they could not be opened). <span
							class="character">Solomon</span> then offered twenty-four prayer-songs
						but was not answered. He then began the prayer (Ps. 24, 7.) “Raise your
						heads, O ye gates and be raised wide, ye everlasting gates, and let the king
						of glory enter.” Thereupon the gates ran after him and opened their mouths
						and wanted to swallow him up, saying: Who is the <span class="god">King of
							glory</span>? (Ib.) <span class="character">Solomon</span> replied. The
							<span class="god">Lord</span>, strong and mighty (Ib.). “He then
						repeated Raise your heads, O ye gates, and raise up, ye everlasting doors,
						and let the King of glory enter.” Who is the <span class="god">King of
							glory</span>, the <span class="god">Lord of Hosts</span>, He is the
							<span class="god">King of glory</span>, Selah ( Ib.). Still he was not
						answered; but as soon as he said <span class="god">O Lord God</span> turn
						not away the face of thy anointed, remember the pious deeds of <span
							class="character">David</span> thy servant, (II Chr. 6, 12), he was
						immediately answered. “At that moment the faces of <span class="character"
							>David's</span> enemies turned black like the bottom of a pot and then
						it was known to all that the <span class="god">Holy One, praised be
							He</span>! had forgiven <span class="character">David</span> that sin.”
						Therefore, did not <span class="character">Solomon</span> properly say.
							<span class="speech">“Thereupon, praise I the dead, etc.”</span> This is
						meant by the passage (I Kings 8, 66.) On the eighth day he dismissed the
						people; they blessed the king and went unto their tents, glad of heart,
						because of all the good that the <span class="god">Lord</span> had done for
							<span class="character">David</span> his servant and for Israel his
						people, i.e.. And they went unto their tents, meaning they found their wives
						levitically pure. Joyful, because of having enjoyed the Divine Glory; glad
						of heart, each man's wife had become pregnant with a male child; because of
						all the good which <span class="god">God</span> had done unto <span
							class="character">David</span> his servant, that he forgave him that
						sin; and Israel his people, for they were forgiven their neglect of the
						observance of the day of Atonement. And when <span class="character"
							>Solomon</span> said (Ecc. 9, 4.)” For a living dog fareth better than a
						dead lion, he meant that which <span class="rabbi">R. Juda</span> said in
						the name of <span class="rabbi">Rab</span> ; for <span class="rabbi">R.
							Juda</span> in the name of <span class="rabbi">Rab</span>, said: “"What
						is meant by the passage (Ps. 39, 5.) Let me know, O <span class="god"
							>Lord</span>, my end, and what the measure of my days is, I wish to know
						when I shall cease to be, i.e., thus said <span class="character"
							>David</span> before the <span class="god">Holy One, praised be
							He</span>! “'<span class="god">Sovereign of the universe</span> let me
						know my end.'” Whereupon the <span class="god">Lord</span> answered him :
						“It has been decreed by me that the time of the death of mortal man shall
						not be known;” “'And the measures of my days what are they'” (Ib.), <span
							class="character">David</span> again asked. “'It is decreed by me'”
						answered the <span class="god">Lord</span>,“' that the measure of the days
						of a man shall not be known.'” Again <span class="character">David</span>
						asked: “'I wish to know when I shall cease to be.'” The <span class="god"
							>Lord</span> then said to him : “'Thou wilt die on the Sabbath.'” “'Let
						me die rather on the first day of the week,'” begged <span class="character"
							>David</span>. “'The first day of the week is the day on which thy son
							<span class="character">Solomon</span> shall be king, and one kingdom
						must not encroach on the other even by so much as a hair's breath.'” “'Let
						me then die on the Sabbath eve,'” pleaded <span class="character"
							>David</span>. Whereupon the <span class="god">Lord</span> said Far
						better is a day in thy courts than a thousand (Ps. 84, 11), i.e., “'I like
						one day in which thou art studying the Torah better than a thousand burnt
						offerings which <span class="character">Solomon</span>, thy son, will
						sacrifice before me upon the altar.'” (Ib. b) Each Sabbath day he would sit
						and study. On that Sabbath when he was to die, the <span class="character"
							>angel of death</span> came and stood before him, but was unable to do
						anything because <span class="character">David</span> never once ceased
						studying. (Said the <span class="character">angel</span> to himself) <span
							class="speech">“What shall I do?”</span> There was an orchard in the
						back of <span class="character">David's</span> house; the <span
							class="character">angel of death</span> went there and shook the trees.
							<span class="character">David</span> (hearing the noise) went out to see
						(the cause of the noise) ; as he ascended the ladder the <span
							class="character">angel</span> caused it to break. <span
							class="character">David</span> fell down and consequently stopped
						studying; whereupon the <span class="character">angel of death</span> took
						his life. It so happened that <span class="character">Solomon</span> sent to
						ask the following questions in the academy: “My father died and lies in sun;
						what shall I do? (Am I allowed to remove him from the sun?) And the dogs of
						my father's house are hungry, what shall I do?” They answered him: “Cut up a
						carrion and place the pieces before the dogs. As to thy father, place a loaf
						of bread or an infant upon his body and then you may carry it away from the
						sun.” Did not <span class="character">Solomon</span>, therefore, say
						properly? <span class="speech">“For a living dog fareth better than a dead
							lion.”</span> And as to the question, which I have been asked in your
						presence, I say this: a lamp is called Ner and the soul is called Ner; it is
						better that a human light (lamp) be extinguished than that <span class="god"
							>God's</span> light (life) be extinguished.”</p>
					<h3> Midrash Ein Yaakov Glick Edition Menachot 4:3 </h3>
					<p>
						<span class="rabbi">R. Eliezer b. Jacob</span> says: “Whoever wears
						Phylacteries upon his head, Phylacteries upon his hand, fringes on his cloak
						and has a Mezuzah on his door-post, these all will preserve him from sin, as
						it is said (Ecc. 4, 12) And a threefold cord is not quickly broken, and
						again there is another verse (Ps. 24, 8) The angel of the <span class="god"
							>Lord</span> encampeth round about them that fear the <span class="god"
							>Lord</span>.”</p>
					<h3> Midrash Ein Yaakov Glick Edition Sanhedrin 11:105 </h3>
					<p>
						<span class="rabbi">R. Dusthai</span>, of the city of Biri, lectured: “Unto
						what may be likened the system of <span class="character">David's</span>
						praver?” “Unto a peddler who wanted to sell out his stock little by little.
						He said before the <span class="god">Holy One, praised be He</span>! (Ps.
						19,13-15) "Sovereign of the Universe, who can guard against errors?" And he
						was answered, <span class="speech">“They will be forgiven.”</span> ( Ib.)
						"From secrets (faults) do Thou cleanse me." <span class="speech">“They will
							be forgiven.”</span> (Ib.) “Also from presumptuous sins withhold Thy
						servants.” <span class="speech">“This will (also) be forgiven.”</span> (Ib.)
						“Let them not have dominion over me,” i.e., the <span class="character"
							>Rabbis</span> shall not talk about me. “This will (also) be allowed to
						you.” (Ib.) “'Then shall I be blameless,'” i.e., my sins shall not be
						written. And he was answered, “'This is impossible, for, if the Yud which I
						took away from the name of <span class="character">Sarai</span> complained
						before me several years, until <span class="character">Joshua</span> came
						and I added it to his name, as it is said (Num. 13, 16) And <span
							class="character">Moses</span> called <span class="character"
							>Hoshea</span>; the son of <span class="character">Nun</span>, <span
							class="character">Joshua</span>, how much more (will there be
						complaints) if I omit a whole portion of the Torah?'” (Ps. 19) Clear from
						any great transgression, i.e., He said before him : “<span class="god"
							>Sovereign of the Universe</span>, forgive me the whole sin.” And he was
						answered, “It is revealed before Me what <span class="character"
							>Solomon</span>, thy son, will say in his wisdom in the future (Pr. 6,
						27-30) “Can a man take fire in his bosom, and his clothes not be burnt? Or
						can one walk upon hot coals, and shall his feet not be scorched? So he that
						goeth in to his neighbor's wife; whosoever touches her shall not go
						unpunished”.” He then exclaimed, “If so, then I am lost.” And he was
						answered : “Accept affliction upon thyself.” Immediately <span
							class="character">David</span> accepted affliction upon himself.” <span
							class="rabbi">R. Juda</span> said in the name of <span class="rabbi"
							>Rab</span>: “Six months was <span class="character">David</span>
						afflicted with leprosy; the Shechina left him, and the Sanhedrin separated
						themselves from him. He was inflicted with leprosy, as it is written (Ps.
						51, 9) Purge me (from sin) with hyssop, etc. The Shechina left him, as it is
						written (Ib., ib., 14) “Restore unto me the gladness of Thy salvation”. The
						Sanhedrin separated themselves from him, as it is written (Ib. 119, 79) “Let
						those that fear Thee return unto me and they that know Thy testimonies”.
						That all this lasted fully six months — when do we learn it ? From the
						following passage (I Kings, 2, 11) “And the days that David reigned over
						Israel were forty years; (Ib. b) In Hebron he reigned thirty-three years
						over all Israel and Judah.” Hence we see that the six months more (which are
						counted in II Samuel) are not counted (in I Kings), and this was because the
						six months in which he was inflicted with leprosy were not counted.” (Ps.
						86, 17)“ Display on me a sign for good, etc.” Thus said <span
							class="character">David</span> before the <span class="god">Holy
							One</span>,<span class="speech">“praised be He”</span>! “<span
							class="god">Sovereign of the universe</span>, forgive me this sin (of
							<span class="character">Bath Sheba</span>).” “Thou art forgiven,”
						answered the <span class="god">Lord</span>. <span class="character"
							>David</span> then said to the <span class="god">Lord</span> : “Show me
						a sign while I live.” Whereupon He answered, “During thy life I shall not
						make it known but during the life of <span class="character">Solomon</span>,
						thy son, I shall make it known.” When <span class="character">Solomon</span>
						had built the Temple he desired to place the ark in the holy of holies, but
						the gates had become fastened to each other (and they could not be opened).
							<span class="character">Solomon</span> then offered twenty-four
						prayer-songs but was not answered. He then said the prayer (Ps. 24, 9)
						“Raise your heads, O ye gates, and raise up, ye everlasting doors, and let
						the King of glory enter. Who is the King of glory, the Lord of Hosts, He is
						the King of glory, Selah” (II Chr. 6, l2). Still he was not answered; but as
						soon as he said O <span class="god">Lord God</span>, turn not away the face
						of Thy anointed, remember the pious deeds of <span class="character"
							>David</span> Thy servant, he was immediately answered. At that moment
						the faces of <span class="character">David's</span> enemies turned black
						like the bottom of a pot and then it was known to all that the <span
							class="god">Holy One, praised be He</span>! had forgiven <span
							class="character">David</span> that sin.</p>
					<h3> Midrash Tanchuma Masei 10:1 </h3>
					<p>(Numb. 34:2), “This is the land that shall fall to you as an inheritance.”
						What is the meaning of “to you?” To you it is fitting. (The matter) is
						comparable to a king who had male and female slaves and would have his male
						slaves marry female slaves from another estate and his female slaves (marry)
						male salves from a different estate.30 The <span class="character"
							>king</span> stopped and reflected. He said, <span class="speech">“The
							male slaves are mine and the female slaves are mine. It would be better
							for me to marry my male slaves ('avadim) to my female slaves, my own to
							my own.”</span> Similarly the <span class="god">Holy One, blessed be
							He</span>, said, “The land is Mine, as stated in (Ps. 24:1), “The land
						is the <span class="god">Lord's</span> and all that is in it.” Moreover
						Israel is Mine, as stated (in Lev. 25:55), “For to Me the Children of Israel
						are servants ('avadim).” (It is) better for Me to bequeath My land to my
						servants who belong to Me, My own to My own.” It is therefore stated (in
						Numb. 34:2),“ this is the land that shall fall to you.” Another
						interpretation (of Numb. 34:2), ““this is the land””: This text is related
						(to Ps. 111:6), ““He revealed to His people His powerful works.”” The <span
							class="god">Holy One, blessed be He</span>, said to Israel, <span
							class="speech">“I could have created a different desirable land for you.
							But in order to show you My strength, I am expelling your enemies in
							front of you and giving you their land, to fulfill that which is stated,
							“He revealed His powerful works....””</span>
					</p>
					<h3> Midrash Tanchuma Beshalach 11:2 </h3>
					<p>A mortal king is praised as mighty, though he may be weak, and as rich,
						merciful, and handsome, because they wish to flatter him. But concerning the
							<span class="god">Holy One, blessed be He</span>, they say: The <span
							class="god">great God</span>, the <span class="god"> mighty God</span>,
						and the awful (Deut. 10:17); “The Lord will go forth as a mighty man” (Isa.
						42:13); “There is none like unto thee, O Lord” (Jer. 10:6). They say He is
						rich, and indeed there are no limits to his wealth, “For behold, unto the
						Lord thy God belongeth the heaven, and the heaven of heavens” (Deut. 10:14).
						And it is written also: “The sea is His, and He made it, and His hands
						formed the dry land” (Ps. 95:5); “The earth is the Lord’s, and the fullness
						thereof” (ibid. 24:1); “Mine is the silver, and Mine is the gold” (Hag.
						2:8); “Behold, all souls are Mine; as the soul of the father, so also the
						soul of the son” (Ezek. 18:4).</p>
					<h3> Midrash Tanchuma Ki Tisa 14:3 </h3>
					<p>
						<span class="rabbi">R. Nehemiah</span> declared: “When we examine our
						actions, we are filled with shame. Usually when a man gives his field to a
						tenant to work, the tenant supplies the seed and the labor, and they share
						equally in the produce. But the <span class="god">Holy One, blessed be
							He</span>, of whom it is written: “The Earth is the Lord’s and the
						fullness thereof” (Ps. 24:1), causes the rain and the dew to descend and
						protects everything, yet He desires only one tenth as tithe and one fiftieth
						as the priestly offering. Hence, “Unto Thee, O Lord, belongeth
						righteousness, but unto us confusion of face” (Dan. 9:7).” <span
							class="rabbi">R. Yosé</span> said: “Was there a more shameful act than
						this? Israel crossed the Red Sea, and the idol <span class="character"
							>Micah</span> (had made) was carried with them when, as it is said: And
						over the tree affliction shall pass (Zech. 10:11). Nevertheless the sea
						split asunder for them. Therefore, “Unto Thee, O Lord, belongeth
						righteousness, but unto us confusion of face.””</p> Genesis 22:1 Some time
					afterward, God put Abraham to the test. He said to him, “Abraham,” and he
					answered, “Here I am.” <h3> Midrash Tanchuma Vayera 19:1 </h3>
					<p>“And it came to pass after these words that God did prove Abraham” (Gen.
						22:1). Scripture states elsewhere in reference to this verse: “Forasmuch as
						the king’s word hath power; and who may say unto him: “What dost thou?”
						whoso keepeth the commandment shall know no evil thing” (Eccles. 8:4–5).
						What is meant by this verse? Whatsoever the <span class="god">Holy One,
							blessed be He</span>, desires to do, He may do, and none may stay His
						hand. What then can be the meaning of “And who may say unto Him: “What doest
						Thou?” whoso keepeth the commandment, etc.”? These words whoso keepeth the
						commandment allude to the righteous men who perform the commandments of the
							<span class="god">Holy One, blessed be He</span>. And it is their decree
						that He fulfills, as it is written: “Thou shalt also decree a thing and it
						shall be established unto thee, and the light shall shine upon thy ways”
						(Job 22:28). An example of this is what occurred after they made the golden
						calf. Though the <span class="god">Holy One, blessed be He</span>, desired
						to destroy them, our master, <span class="character">Moses</span>,
						restrained the <span class="god">Holy One, blessed be He</span>, as though
						that were possible, just as a man restrains his companion. Hence the <span
							class="god">Holy One, blessed be He</span>, said to him: “And now let Me
						be” (Exod. 32:10). We learn this as well from the verse: “Let Me alone that
						I may destroy them” (Deut. 9:14). Therefore Scripture says: “Who may say
						unto him: “What doest thou?” whoso keepeth the commandment.”</p> Genesis
					22:2 And He said, “Take your son, your favored one, Isaac, whom you love, and go
					to the land of Moriah, and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the
					heights that I will point out to you.” <h3> Bereishit Rabbah 55:7 </h3>
					<p>“And He said: Take, please, your son, etc.” (22:2). Said <span
							class="character">God</span> to him: “Take, I beg you" — please —Your
						son.” <span class="speech">“Which son? I have two sons”</span> he said.
							<span class="speech">“Your only son,”</span> replied He. <span
							class="speech">“This one is the only one of his mother, and this one is
							the only one of his mother.”</span>
						<span class="speech">“The one you love”</span>—<span class="speech">“Is
							there a limit to the affections?”</span>
						<span class="speech">“<span class="character">Itzchak</span>”</span> said
						He. And why did <span class="character">God</span> not reveal it to him
						without delay? In order to make him (Itzchak) even more beloved in his eyes
						and reward him for each and every word spoken. This agrees with the opinion
						of <span class="rabbi">Rabbi Yohanan</span>, who said: ““Get out of your
						country” (Gen. 12:1) means from your province; “And from your kindred” (Gen.
						12:1)—from your neighborhood; “And from your father’s house”(Gen.
						12:1)—literally your father’s house.” “To the land that I will show you”
						(Gen. 12:1). Why did He not reveal it to him there and then? In order to
						make it more beloved in his eyes and to reward him for each and every word
						said, and for each and every step taken. <span class="rabbi">Rabbi Levi b.
							Hayata</span> said: “‘Get you’ is written twice, and we do not know
						which was more precious (in the eyes of God) the first or the second. But
						when it is written, “And get you to the land of Moriah” (22:2) it follows
						that the second occasion was more precious than the first.” “And go yourself
						to the land of Moriah” <span class="rabbi">Rabbi Chiya Raba</span> and <span
							class="rabbi">Rabbi Yanai</span> (disagree): one says “to the place from
						which instruction (hora’ah) goes out to the world”, and the other says “to
						the place from which awe (yirah) goes out to the world”. Similarly regarding
						the Holy of Holies (devir), <span class="rabbi">Rabbi Chiya</span> and <span
							class="rabbi">Rabbi Yanai</span> (disagree): one says “from the place
						from which the commandments (dibra’ot) go out to the world”, and one says
						“from the place from which speech (dibur) goes out to the world”. Similarly
						regarding the ark (aron), <span class="rabbi">Rabbi Chiya</span> and <span
							class="rabbi">Rabbi Yanai</span> (disagree): one says “to the place from
						which the light (ha’orah) goes out to the world”, and one says “to the place
						where awe (yirah) goes out to the world”. <span class="rabbi">Rabbi Yehoshua
							ben Levi</span> said that “from there the <span class="character">Holy
							One</span> instructs (mor'eh) the nations of the world and brings them
						down (moridam) to Gehinnom.” <span class="rabbi">Rabbi Shimon bar
							Yochai</span> said, “to the place which is aligned (ra'ui) with the Holy
						Temple above. ”<span class="rabbi">Rabbi Yudan</span> said, “to the place
						where there will be an appearance (mar'eh) to you.” <span class="rabbi"
							>Rabbi Pinchas</span> said, “to the place of the <span class="god"
							>Master (marvatah) of the World</span>.” <span class="rabbi">The
							Rabbis</span> said, “to the place where the incense is offered – this is
						what it says “…I will go to the mountain of myrrh and to the hill of
						frankincense.” (Shir HaShirim 4:6) “And offer Him there as a burnt-offering”
						(Gen. 22:2).” <span class="rabbi">Rabbi Yudan bar Simon</span> said: “He
						(Avraham) said to Him: <span class="speech">“<span class="character">Master
								of the Universe</span>! Can there be a sacrifice without a
							priest?”</span> The <span class="character">Holy One of Blessing</span>
						replied <span class="speech">“I have already appointed you to be a
							priest”</span> as it is written, “You are a priest for ever” (Ps.
						110:4). “On one of the mountains which I will tell you of” (Gen. 22:2).”
							<span class="rabbi">Rabbi Huna</span> said in the name of <span
							class="rabbi">Rabbi Eliezer</span> the son of <span class="rabbi">Rabbi
							Yosei HaGelili</span>: “The <span class="character">Holy One of
							Blessing</span> first places the righteous in doubt and suspense, and
						then reveals to them the real meaning of the matter, as it is written “the
						land that I will show you” (Gen. 12:1); “On one of the mountains which I
						will tell you”; “And make to it the proclamation that I bid you” (Jonah
						3:2); similarly, “Arise, go out into the plain and I will there speak with
						you” (Ezek. 3:22).”</p> Genesis 22:2 And He said, “Take your son, your
					favored one, Isaac, whom you love, and go to the land of Moriah, and offer him
					there as a burnt offering on one of the heights that I will point out to you.”
					Genesis 22:4 On the third day Abraham looked up and saw the place from afar.
						<h3> Midrash Tanchuma Shmini, Siman 2:1 </h3>
					<p>(Lev. 9:1) “And it came to pass on the eighth day….” This text is related (to
						Ps. 75:5), “I say to the merrymakers, ‘Do not make merry….’” What is the
						meaning of (the words), “I say to the merrymakers (rt.: hll), ‘do not make
						merry (rt.: hll)?’”4 (The verse refers) to whoever sings in a mahanaim dance
						(mahol),5 and so it says (in Jud. 21:21), “to dance (lehol) in the dances.”
						(Because no happiness endures for a mortal) (Ps. 75:5), “I say to the
						merrymakers, ‘Do not make merry (rt.: hll).’” Why? The one who is happy
						today shall not be happy tomorrow; and the one who is depressed today shall
						not be depressed tomorrow. And so it says (in Eccl. 2:2), “Of laughter I
						said, ‘It is mad (rt.: hll)….’”6 Are you willing to understand? As behold,
						even the happiness of the <span class="god">Holy One, blessed be He</span>,
						did not endure. When? When the <span class="god">Holy One, blessed be
							He</span>, created His world. He was very happy, as stated (in Ps.
						104:31), “the Lord shall be happy in His works.” It also says (in Gen.
						1:31), “Then God saw everything which He had made; and behold, it was very
						good.” (These verses are) to teach you that the <span class="god">Holy One,
							blessed be He</span>, found pleasure in and took pride in His works.
						Then He gave the first <span class="character">Adam</span> an easy
						commandment, but he did not fulfill it. Immediately He rendered him a
						verdict7 (of death), as stated (in Gen. 3:19), “for dust you are, and unto
						dust you shall return.” So He, as it were, did not remain in His happiness
						but said, <span class="speech">“I created everything only for the human, and
							now he dies. What pleasure is there for Me?”</span> (Now surely if the
						Holy One, blessed be He,) did not remain (happy), how much the less shall
						people (remain happy!) It is therefore stated (in Ps. 75:5), “I say to the
						merrymakers, ‘do not make merry.’” How happy <span class="character"
							>Abraham</span> was! He was blessed in the world, magnified, slew some
						kings and handed over heaven and earth to the <span class="god">Holy One,
							blessed be He</span>. Also when the <span class="god">Holy One, blessed
							be He</span>, gave him a son at age one hundred, he circumcised him and
						reared him. Then finally he was told (in Gen. 22:2), “Please take your son,
						your only son…, and go unto the land of Moriah, and offer him there as a
						burnt offering.” So he made a three-day journey, as stated (in Gen. 22:4),
						“On the third day….” When he returned from Mount Moriah, he buried <span
							class="character">Sarah</span>. He did not find a place to bury her
						until he bought one for four hundred silver shekels. Then after that, old
						age came upon him. Now surely if such was the case with <span
							class="character">Abraham</span> the righteous, how much the more is it
						the case with the wicked! <span class="character">Isaac</span> did not
						remain in his happiness: He escaped from the sword and from the men of
						Gerar. And <span class="god">God</span> informed them about who he was, so
						that they came to him. Thus it is stated (in ), “Then <span
							class="character">Abimelech</span> came unto him from Gerar” and they
						said, “We have clearly seen that the Lord is with you. But he did not remain
						in his happiness. Rather (according to Gen. 27:1), “Now it came to pass,
						that when Isaac was old and his eyes were too weak to see.” So just as (this
						loss of happiness) happened in the case of <span class="character"
							>Isaac</span> the burnt offering of the <span class="god">Holy One,
							blessed be He</span>, (according to Gen. 22:2), how much the more does
						it happen in the case of the wicked! <span class="character">Jacob</span>
						was the first-born of the <span class="god">Holy One, blessed be He</span>,
						as stated (in Exod. 4:22), “Israel is My first-born son.” How happy he was!
						He saw a ladder, and (according to Gen. 28:12-13) “the angels of god were
						ascending and descending (….) And behold, the Lord stood upon it and said, I
						am the Lord….” Then he went to <span class="character">Laban</span>, fled
						from <span class="character">Esau</span>, became <span class="character"
							>Laban</span>'s servant for twenty years and in the end became wealthy,
						sired children and returned in peace. He also met <span class="character"
							>Esau</span> and was saved from him, and paid his vow. But in the end he
						did not remain in his happiness. Instead (according to Gen. 34:1), “Now
						Dinah (the daughter whom Leah had borne to Jacob) went out…,” and was raped.
						There also came upon him the trouble over <span class="character"
							>Joseph</span>. Now surely if <span class="character">Jacob</span> the
						righteous – one to whom the <span class="god">Holy One, blessed be
						He</span>, had said, “In whom I will be glorified,” as stated (in Is. 49:3),
						“Israel, in whom I will be glorified” – did not remain in his happiness, how
						much the less will the wicked (so remain! It is therefore stated (in Ps.
						75:5), “I say to the merrymakers, ‘Do not make merry.’”) How happy <span
							class="character">Joshua</span> was! He slew thirty-one kings, gave
						Israel the land to possess, and distributed it. In addition all Israel gave
						him a (helping) hand and said (in Josh. 1:18), “Anyone who disobeys your
						command… (shall be put to death. Such an honor was)” something of which
						(even) <span class="character">Moses</span> our master did not merit. Still
						he (i.e., <span class="character">Joshua</span>) did not remain in his
						happiness, but rather died childless. It is therefore stated (in Ps. 75:5),
						“I say to the merrymakers, ‘Do not make merry.’” How happy <span
							class="character">Eli</span> was, when he was king, chief justice, and
						high priest! It is so stated (in I Sam. 1:9), “now Eli (the priest) was
						sitting on the throne by the doorpost of the Temple of the Lord.” “Now Eli
						the priest was sitting on the throne,” because he was king. (He was) “by the
						doorpost of the Temple of the Lord,” because he was chief justice. Still he
						did not remain in his happiness. Instead (according to I Sam. 4:18), “And it
						came to pass that when he (i.e., a messenger) mentioned the ark of God, he
						(i.e., Eli) fell backward from off the throne….” Moreover, his two sons,
							<span class="character">Hophni</span> and <span class="character"
							>Phinehas</span> died. So just as this (shift in fortune) happened with
							<span class="character">Eli</span> the righteous, how much the more
						(does it happen with) the wicked! You find neither man nor woman who saw
						joys like <span class="character">Elisheba bat Amminadab</span>, (the wife
						of <span class="character">Aaron</span>, as stated (in Exod. 6:23), “And
						Aaron took for a wife Elisheba bat Amminadab”).8 She saw her husband become
						high priest serving in the high priesthood and (as a) prophet. In addition,
							<span class="character">Moses</span>, her husband's brother, was king
						and prophet. Moreover, her sons were deputies (to the high priest) in the
						priesthood, and her brother <span class="character">Nahshon</span> was head
						of all of the princes of Israel.9 Still she did not remain in her happiness.
						Rather, when two of her sons went in to offer a sacrifice, (according to
						Lev. 10:2,) “Fire came forth from before the Lord and consumed them, so that
						they died before the Lord.” It is therefore stated (in Ps. 75:5), “I say to
						the merrymakers, ‘Do not make merry.’” And so <span class="character"
							>Solomon</span> said (in Eccl. 2:2), “Of laughter I said, ‘It is mad.’”
						There is a story about one of the great Babylonian (scholars), who married
						off his son,10 and made a great banquet for the sages. He said to his son,
						“Go up and bring us a jar of such and such a wine from the attic.” He went
						up to the attic. (There) a snake (from) among the jars bit him, and he died.
						His father remained with those who were reclining (at his table). So he
						delayed and did not come. (Finally,) his father said, “Let me go up and see
						what my son is doing.” His father went up (and) found him cast down dead
						among the jars. What did that saint do? He waited by himself until the
						guests had eaten and drunk sufficiently. When they had finished, he said,
						“You came to say a bridegrooms' blessing over my son. (But instead) say a
						mourners' blessing over him. You came to bring my son to the wedding canopy.
						(Instead) bring him to (his) grave.” They said about <span class="rabbi">R.
							Zakkay of Kabul</span> and they opened about him (in the words of Eccl.
						2:2), “Of laughter I said, ‘It is mad; and what does joy do?’””</p> Genesis
					22:6 Abraham took the wood for the burnt offering and put it on his son Isaac.
					He himself took the firestone and the knife; and the two walked off together.
					Genesis 22:8 And Abraham said, “God will see to the sheep for His burnt
					offering, my son.” And the two of them walked on together. <h3> Midrash Tanchuma
						Buber Vayera 46:9 </h3>
					<p>Another interpretation (of Gen. 22:6, cont.): “SO BOTH OF THEM WENT OFF
						TOGETHER”. <span class="rabbi">R. Abbin Berabbi the Levite</span> said:
						“While they were walking, <span class="character">Satan</span> came to <span
							class="character">Isaac</span> on his right hand and said: <span
							class="speech">“Alas, wretched son of a wretched woman, how many fasts
							did your mother fast until you came? 172 Now the old man has gone mad in
							his old age, and here he is going to slaughter you.”</span>
						<span class="character">Isaac</span> turned back and said to his father:
							<span class="speech">“Look at what this one is saying to me!”</span> He
						said to him: <span class="speech">“He has come to confuse you, but the <span
								class="god">Holy One</span> shall not confuse us”</span>, as stated
						(in Gen. 22:8): “GOD WILL SEE TO THE LAMB FOR A BURNT OFFERING”. So
						nevertheless (according to Gen. 22:6): “SO BOTH OF THEM WENT OFF TOGETHER”.
						How old was <span class="character">Isaac</span>? He was thirty-seven years
						old.173”</p> Genesis 22:7 Then Isaac said to his father Abraham, “Father!”
					And he answered, “Yes, my son.” And he said, “Here are the firestone and the
					wood; but where is the sheep for the burnt offering?” Genesis 22:8 And Abraham
					said, “God will see to the sheep for His burnt offering, my son.” And the two of
					them walked on together. <h3> Bereishit Rabbah 56:4 </h3>
					<p>“And Itzchak spoke to Avraham his father, and said: My father” (Gen. 22:7).
							<span class="character">Samael</span> went to the our father <span
							class="character">Avraham</span> and said: <span class="speech">“Old
							man, old man! Have you lost your mind (lit. have you lost your heart)?
							You are going to slay a son given to you at the age of a
							hundred!”</span>
						<span class="speech">“Even this I do,”</span> replied he. (<span
							class="character">Samael</span> said:) <span class="speech">“And if He
							sets you an even greater test, can you stand it?!”</span> (as it is
						written) “If a thing be put to you as a trial, will you be wearied” (Job
						4:2)? <span class="speech">“Even more than this,”</span> he replied. (<span
							class="character">Samael</span> said:) <span class="speech">“Tomorrow He
							will say to you, “You are guilty of murder, you murdered your
							son!””</span> He replied: <span class="speech">“Still I go”</span>.
						Seeing that he could achieve nothing with him, he approached <span
							class="character">Itzchak</span> and said: <span class="speech">“Son of
							an unhappy mother! He is going to slay you!”</span> He replied: <span
							class="speech">“Still I go”</span>. <span class="character"
							>Samael</span> said: <span class="speech">“If so, all those fine tunics
							which your mother made be a legacy for <span class="character"
								>Ishmael</span>, the hated of her house, and you don't care (lit.
							don't let it enter your heart)?”</span> If a word is not completely
						effective, it may yet be effective in part, that’s why it is written, “And
						Itzchak spoke to Avraham his father, and said: My father”: why (his) father,
						(my) father twice? So that he should be filled with compassion for him. “And
						he said: Behold, the fire and the wood.” <span class="character"
							>Avraham</span> said to him: <span class="speech">“May that man who has
							thus seduced him be drowned! Any way, “God will provide himself the
							lamb, my son”; and if not you are “the lamb for the burnt-offering my
							son.””</span> So “"they went both of them together"” (Gen. 22:8) — one
						to slaughter and the other to be slaughtered.</p> Genesis 22:2 And He said,
					“Take your son, your favored one, Isaac, whom you love, and go to the land of
					Moriah, and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the heights that I
					will point out to you.” Genesis 22:11 Then an angel of the LORD called to him
					from heaven: “Abraham! Abraham!” And he answered, “Here I am.” Genesis 22:12 And
					he said, “Do not raise your hand against the boy, or do anything to him. For now
					I know that you fear God, since you have not withheld your son, your favored
					one, from Me.” <h3> Bereishit Rabbah 56:8 </h3>
					<p>Another explanation: <span class="rabbi">Rabbi Itzchak</span> said, “At the
						time that <span class="character">Avraham</span> sought to bind <span
							class="character">Itzchak</span>, his son, (the latter) said to him,
							<span class="speech">“Father, I am a young man and I am concerned lest
							my body shake from fear of the knife and I will trouble you, and lest
							the slaughtering will be invalid and it will not be considered a
							sacrifice for you. Rather, tie me very well.”</span> Immediately, “and
						he bound Itzchak.” Could he really tie up a man of thirty-seven (a different
						version: of twenty six years)? Rather, it was with his agreement.
						Immediately. “And Avraham sent his hand.” He sends his hand to take the
						knife and his eyes brings down tears and the tears fall onto the eyes of
							<span class="character">Itzchak</span> from the mercy of his father. And
						nonetheless, the heart was happy to do the will of <span class="god">his
							Maker</span>. And the angels gathered in many groups above them. What
						did they yell out? “The ways have become desolate, the wayfarer has ceased;
						He has rescinded His covenant; He has become disgusted with the cities”
						(Isaiah 33:7) – He does not desire Jerusalem and the Temple that he had in
						mind to bequeath to the children of <span class="character">Itzchak</span>.
						'He did not consider a man' – merit did not stand <span class="character"
							>Avraham</span> well: 'No creation has importance in front of Me.'”
							<span class="rabbi">Rabbi Acha</span> said, “<span class="character"
							>Avraham</span> started to wonder, <span class="speech">“These words are
							only words of wonder. Yesterday, you told me (Genesis 21:12), “Because
							in Itzchak will your seed be called.” And (then) you went back and said,
							“Please take your son.” And now You say to me, “Do not send your hand to
							the youth.” It is a wonder!”</span> The <span class="god">Holy One,
							blessed be He</span>, said, <span class="speech">“'<span
								class="character">Avraham</span>, “I will not profane My covenant
							and the utterances of My lips, I will not change” (Psalms 89:35) – When
							I said, “Please take your son,” I did not say, "slaughter him," but
							rather, "and bring him up." For the sake of love did I say (it) to you:
							I said to you, "Bring him up," and you have fulfilled My words. And now,
							bring him down.’”</span> (A different version: They said a parable about
						a king that said to his friend, <span class="speech">“Bring up your son to
							my table.”</span> His friend brought him up and his knife was in his
						hand. The king said, <span class="speech">“And did I say to you, "Bring him
							up to eat him?" I said to you, "Bring him up"”</span> – (and this was)
						because of (the king's) love.) This is (the meaning of) what is written
						(Jeremiah 19:5), “it did not come up on My heart” – that is <span
							class="character">Itzchak</span>.)”</p> Genesis 22:11 Then an angel of
					the LORD called to him from heaven: “Abraham! Abraham!” And he answered, “Here I
					am.” Genesis 22:12 And he said, “Do not raise your hand against the boy, or do
					anything to him. For now I know that you fear God, since you have not withheld
					your son, your favored one, from Me.” <h3> Bereishit Rabbah 56:7 </h3>
					<p>“And the angel of Ad-nai called to him out of heaven, and said: Abraham,
						Abraham” (Gen. 22:11). <span class="rabbi">Rabbi Hiya</span> taught: “This
						is an expression of love, this is an expression of urging.” <span
							class="rabbi">Rabbi Eliezer ben Yaakov</span> said: “He spoke to him and
						to future generations, there is no generation which does not contain people
						like <span class="character">Avraham</span>, and there is no generation
						which does not contain people like <span class="character">Yaakov</span>,
							<span class="character">Moshe</span>, and <span class="character"
							>Shmuel</span>. “And he said: "Do not lay your hand etc."” (Gen. 22:12)
						Where was the knife? Three tears had fallen from the angels of service and
						the knife dissolved. <span class="character">Avraham</span> said: <span
							class="speech">“I will strangle him,”</span> He said: “Do not lay your
						hand upon the lad.” (<span class="character">Avraham</span>) said <span
							class="speech">“I will take a drop of blood from him”</span> - He said
						to him: ‘Neither do anything (me'uma) to him’ (meaning) inflict no blemish
						(muma) upon him. "Because now I know" (meaning) I have made it known to all
						that you love Me, “"and you have not withheld, etc"”. And do not say that
						all ills that do not affect one’s own body are not ills, rather I ascribe
						merit to you as though I had told to you to sacrifice yourself and you did
						not refuse.”</p> Genesis 22:13 When Abraham looked up, his eye fell upon a
					ram, caught in the thicket by its horns. So Abraham went and took the ram and
					offered it up as a burnt offering in place of his son. <h3> Midrash Tanchuma
						Vayera 23:9 </h3>
					<p>The <span class="god">Holy One, blessed be He</span>, answered: “You have
						spoken what was in you heart, now I will say what I wish to say. In the
						future <span class="character">Isaac</span>’s descendants will sin against
						Me, and I will judge them on Rosh Hashanah. If they want Me to discover
						something to their credit, and to recall for their advantage the binding of
							<span class="character">Isaac</span>, let them blow upon this shofar.”
							<span class="character">Abraham</span> asked: <span class="speech">“What
							shofar?”</span> The <span class="god">Holy One, blessed be He</span>,
						said: “Turn around.” Then it was that <span class="character">Abraham</span>
						lifted up his eyes, and looked, and behold, behind a ram caught in the
						thicket by his horns (Gen. 22:13). This was one of the ten things that were
						created at twilight.17</p> Genesis 22:1-19 Some time afterward, God put
					Abraham to the test. He said to him, “Abraham,” and he answered, “Here I am.”
					And He said, “Take your son, your favored one, Isaac, whom you love, and go to
					the land of Moriah, and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the
					heights that I will point out to you.” So early next morning, Abraham saddled
					his ass and took with him two of his servants and his son Isaac. He split the
					wood for the burnt offering, and he set out for the place of which God had told
					him. On the third day Abraham looked up and saw the place from afar. Then
					Abraham said to his servants, “You stay here with the ass. The boy and I will go
					up there; we will worship and we will return to you.” Abraham took the wood for
					the burnt offering and put it on his son Isaac. He himself took the firestone
					and the knife; and the two walked off together. Then Isaac said to his father
					Abraham, “Father!” And he answered, “Yes, my son.” And he said, “Here are the
					firestone and the wood; but where is the sheep for the burnt offering?” And
					Abraham said, “God will see to the sheep for His burnt offering, my son.” And
					the two of them walked on together. They arrived at the place of which God had
					told him. Abraham built an altar there; he laid out the wood; he bound his son
					Isaac; he laid him on the altar, on top of the wood. And Abraham picked up the
					knife to slay his son. Then an angel of the LORD called to him from heaven:
					“Abraham! Abraham!” And he answered, “Here I am.” And he said, “Do not raise
					your hand against the boy, or do anything to him. For now I know that you fear
					God, since you have not withheld your son, your favored one, from Me.” When
					Abraham looked up, his eye fell upon a ram, caught in the thicket by its horns.
					So Abraham went and took the ram and offered it up as a burnt offering in place
					of his son. And Abraham named that site Adonai-yireh, whence the present saying,
					“On the mount of the LORD there is vision.” The angel of the LORD called to
					Abraham a second time from heaven, and said, “By Myself I swear, the LORD
					declares: Because you have done this and have not withheld your son, your
					favored one, I will bestow My blessing upon you and make your descendants as
					numerous as the stars of heaven and the sands on the seashore; and your
					descendants shall seize the gates of their foes. All the nations of the earth
					shall bless themselves by your descendants, because you have obeyed My command.”
					Abraham then returned to his servants, and they departed together for
					Beer-sheba; and Abraham stayed in Beer-sheba. <h3> Sefer HaYashar (midrash) Book
						of Genesis, Vayera 18 </h3>
					<p>And while <span class="character">Abraham</span> was pursuing his journey
						with his son <span class="character">Isaac</span>, behold <span
							class="character">Satan</span> came and ‎appeared to <span
							class="character">Abraham</span> in the figure of a very old man, of a
						very modest and humble spirit. And ‎ approaching <span class="character"
							>Abraham</span> he said unto him: <span class="speech">“Art thou a fool
							or an idiot that thou goest to do such a ‎thing this day and even to thy
							only son? For behold the <span class="god">Lord</span> had given him
							unto thee in the last of thy days and in thy old age, and now wilt thou
							go and slaughter him without any wrong ‎action of his, and destroy the
							life of thy only son? Knowest thou not, and hast thou not heard ‎of it,
							that such a thing could never have come from the <span class="god"
								>Lord</span>, for the <span class="god">Lord</span> hath never done
							‎unto man a great evil like this upon the earth to say unto a man go and
							slay thy son?”</span> And ‎<span class="character">Abraham</span>
						hearing these words knew at once that it was the voice of <span
							class="character">Satan</span> who attempted to ‎lead him astray from
						the way of the <span class="god">Lord</span>, and <span class="character"
							>Abraham</span> refused to hearken to the voice of ‎<span
							class="character">Satan</span>. And <span class="character"
							>Abraham</span> rebuked him severely and <span class="character"
							>Satan</span> went away from him. And <span class="character"
							>Satan</span> soon ‎returned and came to <span class="character"
							>Isaac</span>, appearing unto him in the guise of a young man of good
						figure ‎and pleasant looks. And he approached <span class="character"
							>Isaac</span> and said unto him: <span class="speech">“Knowest thou or
							hast thou ‎heard of it, that thy old and foolish father carries thee to
							the slaughter to-day without any cause? And now, my boy, do not listen
							unto him and do not obey him, for he is old and foolish, ‎and do not
							suffer thy precious life and thy handsome person to perish from the
							earth.”</span> And ‎when <span class="character">Isaac</span> had heard
						these words he turned unto <span class="character">Abraham</span> saying:
							<span class="speech">“Hast thou heard, oh, my ‎father, the words of this
							man, such and such are his remarks.”</span> And <span class="character"
							>Abraham</span> answered unto his ‎son <span class="character"
							>Isaac</span> saying: <span class="speech">“Beware of him my son, do not
							listen unto his word and pay no attention unto ‎him, for that is <span
								class="character">Satan</span>, who is resolved to turn us this day
							from following the commandments of ‎our <span class="god"
							>Lord</span>.”</span> And <span class="character">Abraham</span> rebuked
							<span class="character">Satan</span> once more, and he went away from
						them. And when ‎<span class="character">Satan</span> saw that he could not
						succeed in that manner, he disappeared suddenly and went on ‎before them on
						their road, and changed himself into a mighty river full of water on the
						road. ‎And when <span class="character">Abraham</span> and <span
							class="character">Isaac</span> and his two young men reached that place
						they saw a river, ‎large and very powerful like unto the mighty waters. And
						they went into the river, the waters ‎of which reached up to their legs and
						they passed on through it. But the waters grew always ‎deeper and reached
						finally to their necks, when they were all terrified on account of the
						‎water. And as they passed on <span class="character">Abraham</span> at once
						recognized the place, and <span class="character">Abraham</span> knew that
						‎there hath never been a river before on that place. And <span
							class="character">Abraham</span> said unto his son <span
							class="character">Isaac</span>: <span class="speech">“I ‎know this place
							well and there hath never been before neither a river nor any water, and
							it is ‎only the work of <span class="character">Satan</span>, who is
							doing these things in order to turn us this day from the ‎commandments
							of the <span class="god">Lord</span>.”</span> And <span
							class="character">Abraham</span> rebuked <span class="character"
							>Satan</span> saying unto him: <span class="speech">“May the <span
								class="god">Lord</span> ‎rebuke thee, oh <span class="character"
								>Satan</span>, get thee behind us for we are following the order of
							our <span class="god">Lord</span>.”</span> And ‎<span class="character"
							>Satan</span> became terrified at <span class="character"
						>Abraham</span>'s voice and he departed from them,</p> Genesis 22:1-19 Some
					time afterward, God put Abraham to the test. He said to him, “Abraham,” and he
					answered, “Here I am.” And He said, “Take your son, your favored one, Isaac,
					whom you love, and go to the land of Moriah, and offer him there as a burnt
					offering on one of the heights that I will point out to you.” So early next
					morning, Abraham saddled his ass and took with him two of his servants and his
					son Isaac. He split the wood for the burnt offering, and he set out for the
					place of which God had told him. On the third day Abraham looked up and saw the
					place from afar. Then Abraham said to his servants, “You stay here with the ass.
					The boy and I will go up there; we will worship and we will return to you.”
					Abraham took the wood for the burnt offering and put it on his son Isaac. He
					himself took the firestone and the knife; and the two walked off together. Then
					Isaac said to his father Abraham, “Father!” And he answered, “Yes, my son.” And
					he said, “Here are the firestone and the wood; but where is the sheep for the
					burnt offering?” And Abraham said, “God will see to the sheep for His burnt
					offering, my son.” And the two of them walked on together. They arrived at the
					place of which God had told him. Abraham built an altar there; he laid out the
					wood; he bound his son Isaac; he laid him on the altar, on top of the wood. And
					Abraham picked up the knife to slay his son. Then an angel of the LORD called to
					him from heaven: “Abraham! Abraham!” And he answered, “Here I am.” And he said,
					“Do not raise your hand against the boy, or do anything to him. For now I know
					that you fear God, since you have not withheld your son, your favored one, from
					Me.” When Abraham looked up, his eye fell upon a ram, caught in the thicket by
					its horns. So Abraham went and took the ram and offered it up as a burnt
					offering in place of his son. And Abraham named that site Adonai-yireh, whence
					the present saying, “On the mount of the LORD there is vision.” The angel of the
					LORD called to Abraham a second time from heaven, and said, “By Myself I swear,
					the LORD declares: Because you have done this and have not withheld your son,
					your favored one, I will bestow My blessing upon you and make your descendants
					as numerous as the stars of heaven and the sands on the seashore; and your
					descendants shall seize the gates of their foes. All the nations of the earth
					shall bless themselves by your descendants, because you have obeyed My command.”
					Abraham then returned to his servants, and they departed together for
					Beer-sheba; and Abraham stayed in Beer-sheba. <h3> Sefer HaYashar (midrash) Book
						of Genesis, Vayera 21 </h3>
					<p>And <span class="character">Abraham</span> slew the ram upon the altar for a
						burnt offering before the <span class="god">Lord</span> instead of his ‎son
							<span class="character">Isaac</span>; and <span class="character"
							>Abraham</span> sprinkled of the blood of the ram upon the altar, and he
						exclaimed, ‎saying: <span class="speech">“This is instead of my son, and may
							it be considered as the blood of my son before the ‎<span class="god"
								>Lord</span>, even on this day”</span>; and whatsoever <span
							class="character">Abraham</span> performed upon that occasion he always
						‎accompanied it by these words: <span class="speech">“This is in the place
							of my son, and may it be considered this ‎day before the <span
								class="god">Lord</span> in place of my son.”</span> And when <span
							class="character">Abraham</span> had completed the services at the
						‎altar, and the offering was accepted by the <span class="god">Lord</span>,
						it was actually considered as if it had been ‎<span class="character"
							>Isaac</span> that was sacrificed. And the <span class="god">Lord</span>
						blessed <span class="character">Abraham</span> and his seed on that day. And
							<span class="character">Satan</span> ‎hurried unto <span
							class="character">Sarah</span> and appeared unto her in the guise of a
						very humble and lowly old man, ‎while <span class="character">Abraham</span>
						was still performing his duties at the altar before the Lord. And <span
							class="character">Satan</span> said unto ‎<span class="character"
							>Sarah</span>: <span class="speech">“Knowest thou not the work that
								<span class="character">Abraham</span> hath done with thine only son
							to-day? Verily, ‎he hath taken <span class="character">Isaac</span> and
							built an altar and killed him and brought him for a burnt offering upon
							‎the altar; and <span class="character">Isaac</span> was weeping and
							praying before his father, but he never heeded his cries ‎and he had no
							mercy upon him.‎‏”</span> ‏And after repeating his story, <span
							class="character">Satan</span> departed from <span class="character"
							>Sarah</span>; and ‎<span class="character">Sarah</span> having heard
						these words of <span class="character">Satan</span>, took him for one of the
						sons of man who had been ‎with her son and who had come to tell her these
						words.‎‏ ‏And <span class="character">Sarah</span> lifted up her voice and
						she ‎wept and cried bitterly over the loss of her son; and she lay down upon
						the ground and she ‎scattered dust upon her head, and she exclaimed: <span
							class="speech">“Oh, my son, <span class="character">Isaac</span> | oh,
							my son would that I ‎had died to-day in thy place |”</span> And she
						continued weeping and crying: <span class="speech">“It grieves me for thy
							‎sake, oh, my son I Would that I had died to-day in thy place!”</span>
						And she kept on lamenting, and ‎she said: <span class="speech">“It grieves
							me for thy sake, now after I have raised thee and brought thee up, my
							joy ‎hath been turned into mourning for thee, I who was yearning for
							thee, I who have been crying ‎and praying to the <span class="god"
								>Lord</span> for thee until I bare thee at the age of ninety years,
							and now hast thou ‎been given up to-day to the knife and to the fire to
							be made a burnt offering; yet I will take ‎comfort, my son, in the
							thought that all hath been caused by the word of the <span class="god"
								>Lord</span>, as thou ‎hast performed the commandment of thy <span
								class="god">God</span>, and who can rebel against the word of <span
								class="god">God</span> in ‎whose hand is the soul of every living
							creature? Thou art just, O <span class="god">Lord our God</span>, and
							all thy ‎works are justice and righteousness; and I am exceedingly glad
							at the words of thy command, ‎and though mine eye weepeth, my heart
							rejoiceth within me.”</span>‎‏ ‏And <span class="character">Sarah</span>
						placed her head ‎upon the bosom of one of her maid servants and she became
						silent like a rock. And soon after ‎she arose and went about to make
						inquiries until she reached Hebron. And she questioned ‎every passer-by that
						she met on the road, but no one could tell her anything concerning the ‎fate
						of her son.‎</p> Psalm 24.1 Of David. A psalm. The earth is the LORD’s and
					all that it holds, the world and its inhabitants. Psalm 24.2 For He founded it
					upon the ocean, set it on the nether-streams. Psalm 24.3 Who may ascend the
					mountain of the LORD? Who may stand in His holy place?— Psalm 24.4 He who has
					clean hands and a pure heart, who has not taken a false oath by My life or sworn
					deceitfully. Psalm 24.5 He shall carry away a blessing from the LORD, a just
					reward from God, his deliverer. Psalm 24.6 Such is the circle of those who turn
					to Him, Jacob, who seek Your presence.Selah. Psalm 24.7 O gates, lift up your
					heads! Up high, you everlasting doors, so the King of glory may come in! Psalm
					24.8 Who is the King of glory?— the LORD, mighty and valiant, the LORD, valiant
					in battle. Psalm 24.9 O gates, lift up your heads! Lift them up, you everlasting
					doors, so the King of glory may come in! Psalm 24.10 Who is the King of glory?—
					the LORD of hosts, He is the King of glory!Selah. <h3> Midrash Ein Yaakov Glick
						Edition Rosh Hashanah 4:1 </h3>
					<p>(Fol. 31) We are taught in a Baraitha: <span class="rabbi">R. Juda</span>
						said, in the name of <span class="rabbi">R. Akiba</span>: “What (song) did
						(the Levites) chant on the first day of the week? (Ps. 24) “The earth is the
						Lord's and the fulness thereof, because He (the Lord, in establishing the
						world) took possession and gave (His creatures) possession (invested them
						with life), and (became) the Sovereign of the world.” What did they sing on
						the second day? (Ib. 48) “Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised,
						because (on that day) He divided His works (the heavens from the earth) and
						reigned over them.” On the third day they sang (Ib. 82) <span class="god"
							>God</span> standeth in the congregation of the mighty, because (on that
						day) He, in His wisdom, caused the earth to be revealed and the world to be
						prepared for its occupants. On the fourth day they sang (Ib. 94) O <span
							class="god">Lord</span>, to whom retribution belongeth, because (on that
						day) He created the sun and moon, and in the future He will punish those who
						would worship them. On the fifth day they sang (Ib. 81) Sing aloud unto
							<span class="god">God</span>, our strength, because (on that day) He
						created the birds and the fishes (which bring) praise to His name. On the
						sixth day they sang, (Ib. 93) The <span class="god">Lord</span> reigneth. He
						is clothed in majesty, because (on that day) He finished His works and
						became sovereign over them. On the seventh day they sang (Ib. 92) A psalm, a
						song, for the Sabbath day; i.e., for the day that is a perfect rest.” <span
							class="rabbi">R. Nechemia</span> said : “What reason had <span
							class="rabbi">R. Akiba </span>to make distinctions among these sections,
						(for the last refers to a future event, while all the others refer to the
						past)? We must therefore say that they sang that psalm on the Sabbath day,
						because He rested.” This is contrary to the opinion of <span class="rabbi"
							>R. K'tina</span>, for <span class="rabbi">R. K'tina</span> said: “The
						world will last six thousand years, and one thousand years it will be waste;
						as it is said (Is. 2, 11) And exalted shall be the <span class="god"
							>Lord</span> alone on that day"” <span class="rabbi">Abaye</span>,
						however, said: “Two thousand years it will waste; as it is said (Hos. 6, 2)
						He will revive us after two days.”</p>
					<h3> Midrash Ein Yaakov Glick Edition Berakhot 6:2 </h3>
					<p>Our Rabbis taught: “It is prohibited to enjoy anything of this world without
						saving a benediction, and he who enjoys (the least thing) in this world
						without saving a benediction defrauds (<span class="god">the Lord</span>).
						What shall his remedy be? Let him go to a learned man.” What can a learned
						man do for him when he already has transgressed the prohibition? “But,” said
							<span class="rabbi">Raba</span>, “let him go unto a learned man first;
						study the laws of benedictions that he may avoid sacrilege.” <span
							class="rabbi">R. Juda</span> said in the name of <span class="character"
							>Samuel</span> : “He who enjoys (the least thing) in this world without
						having said a benediction is considered as if he had enjoyed something of
						the things dedicated to Heaven, for it is said (Ps. 24, 1.) Unto the <span
							class="god">Lord</span> belongeth the earth and all that filleth it.”
							<span class="rabbi">R. Levi</span> pointed out the following
						contradiction: “It is written (Ib. ib.) Unto the <span class="god"
							>Lord</span> belongeth the earth and all that filleth it, and it is also
						written (Ib. 115, I6.) The Heavens are the Heavens of the <span class="god"
							>Lord</span>; but the earth hath He given to the children of man. It is
						not difficult to reconcile (these two verses). The former refers to the time
						before he pronounced the benediction (it still belongs to Heaven), (Ib. b.)
						and the latter refers to the time after he pronounced the benediction (then
						it belongs to man)."” <span class="rabbi">R. Chanina b. Papa</span> said:
						“He who enjoys (anything) in this world without saying a benediction is
						considered as if he has robbed the <span class="god">Holy One, praised be
							He</span>! and the Congregation of Israel, for it is said (Pr. 28, 24.)
						Whoso robbeth his father or his mother and saith it is no transgression, he
						is the companion of a destroyer. His father, refers to the <span class="god"
							>Holy One, praised be He</span>! as it is said (Deu. 32, 6.) Is He not
						thy father who hath bought thee; Or his mother, refers to nothing else but
						the Congregation of Israel., as it is said (Pr. 1, 8.) Hear, my son, the
						instructions of your father and cast not aside the teaching of your mother.”
						What is meant by He is a companion of a destroyer? <span class="rabbi">R.
							Chanina b. Papa</span> said: “He is a companion of <span
							class="character">Jeroboam</span>, the son of <span class="character"
							>Nebat</span>, who has corrupted Israel in their relation to their <span
							class="god">Heavenly Father</span>."”</p>
					<h3> Midrash Ein Yaakov Glick Edition Shabbat 16:12 </h3>
					<p>
						<span class="character">Joseph</span>, who honored the Sabbath, had a very
						rich neighbor. This neighbor was told by the Chaldeans (soothsayers) that
						all his wealth would eventually be eaten up by <span class="character"
							>Joseph</span>. The neighbor, therefore, sold his estate and with the
						proceeds bought a large diamond, which he fixed in his turban. One day,
						while crossing a bridge, a gust of wind blew his turban into the water and a
						fish swallowed it. This fish (being caught) was brought (to the market) on a
						Friday. “Who wants to buy fish to-day?” they inquired. They were told to go
						to <span class="character">Joseph</span>, who honors the Sabbath and usually
						buys fish that day. So they brought the fish to him and he bought it. When
						the fish was cut up, the jewel was found and <span class="character"
							>Joseph</span> sold it for thirteen purses of gold denarim. When that
						old man met him, he said to <span class="character">Joseph</span>: “He, who
						lends to the Sabbath (incurring additional expenses in its honor) the
						Sabbath will repay.” <span class="character">Rabbi</span> asked <span
							class="rabbi">R. Ishmael</span>, the son of <span class="rabbi">R.
							Jose</span>, “What merited the rich people of Palestine who become so
						wealthy?” He answered thus: “Because they gave their tithes in due season,
						as it is said (Deu. 14, 22.) Thou shalt tithe the tithe, i.e., give tithes,
						in order that thou mayest become rich."” “What merited the rich of Babylon
						(where people are exempt from tithes) ?” “Because,” said <span class="rabbi"
							>R. Ishmael</span>, “they honor the Torah.” “And what merited the rich
						of other countries that made them so wealthy ?” “Because,” said he, “they
						honored the Sabbath; for <span class="rabbi">R. Chiya b. Abba</span> said:“I
						sojourned once with a wealthy man in Ludki. and I saw that they brought
						before him a golden table carried by sixteen men, and having sixteen silver
						links depending from it ; in these links were fixed bowls, cups, pitchers
						and dishes, all filled with various kinds of victuals, and all sorts of rare
						fruits and spices. When setting the table, they said: Unto the <span
							class="god">Lord</span> belongs the earth with what filleth it (Ps. 24,
						1). And when they removed the table, they said The heavens are the heavens
						of the <span class="god">Lord</span>; but the earth hath he given to the
						children of men (Ib. 115, 16). I said to him “My son, how have you merited
						this prosperity?” He said to me: “I was formerly a butcher, and I always
						selected the finest cattle to be slaughtered for the Sabbath.” I then said
						to him : “Happy art thou for being so merited and blessed be the <span
							class="god">Lord</span> who hath rewarded thee with all this.”””</p>
					<h3> Midrash Ein Yaakov Glick Edition Bava Batra 5:23 </h3>
					<p>When <span class="rabbi">R. Dimi</span> came from Palestine, he said in the
						name of <span class="rabbi">R. Jonathan</span>, “what is the meaning of the
						passage (Ps. 24, 2) For upon seas he hath founded it, and upon rivers he
						hath established it? i.e. the seven seas and four rivers which surround the
						land of Israel (Palestine), the seven seas are the seas of Tiberia, Sodom,
						Chirat, Chiltha, Sipchi, Aspamia, and the ocean; and the four rivers are
						Jordan, Jarmuch, Kirumyun, and Phiga.” When <span class="rabbi">R.
							Dimi</span> came, he said in the name of <span class="rabbi">R.
							Jonathan</span> : “In the future the angel <span class="character"
							>Gabriel</span> (Fol. 75) will go hunting for the <span
							class="character">leviathan</span>, as it is said (Job 40, 25) Canst
						thou draw out the crocodile (leviathan) with a fishhook or cause his tongue
						to sink into the baited rope? And if not for the help of the <span
							class="god">Holy One, praised be He</span>! he would not conquer him, as
						it is said (Ib.) He is the first in rank . . . he that hath made him can
						alone bring his sword near to him.” When <span class="rabbi">R. Dimi</span>
						came, he said also in the name of <span class="rabbi">R. Jochanan</span> :
						“When the <span class="character">leviathan</span> becomes hungry, he expels
						from his mouth a gas which makes all the waters in the deep boil, as it is
						said (Ib. 41, 23) He maketh the deep to boil like a pot. And should he put
						his head in paradise, not one of the creatures could withstand the bad smell
						of the gas, as it is said (Ib.) He maketh the sea like a seething mixture.
						And when he gets thirsty, he makes the sea hollow like beds, as it is said:
						Behind him he causeth his pathway to shine.” And <span class="rabbi">R. Acha
							b. Jacob</span> said: “The deep does not come to its natural way before
						seventy years, as it is said (Ib.) Men esteem the deep to be hoary — and
						hoary is not less than seventy years."”</p>
					<h3> Midrash Ein Yaakov Glick Edition Moed Katan 1:4 </h3>
					<p>(Ib. 9) But whence do we learn that one joy must not be mixed with another?
						Said <span class="rabbi">R. Juda</span> in the name of <span
							class="character">Samuel</span> : “It is written (I Kings 8, 65) And
							<span class="character">Solomon</span> held at the time the feast, etc.,
						seven days and seven days, even fourteen days. Now, if it be true that one
						joy may be mixed with another, why then did <span class="character"
							>Solomon</span> not postpone his feast until the festival ; for then the
						seven days of the festival would have served for both?” <span class="rabbi"
							>R. Parnach</span>, in the name of <span class="rabbi">R.
							Jochanan</span>, said : “In that year the Israelites had not observed
						the Day of Atonement and they were perturbed over the sin that might cause
						them destruction. Whereupon a heavenly voice came forth and said unto them:
							<span class="speech">“All of you are destined for the future
							world”</span>"” And whence do we learn that they were pardoned for that
						sin? <span class="rabbi">R. Tachlipha</span> was taught.</p>
					<h3> Midrash Ein Yaakov Glick Edition Shabat 2:10 </h3>
					<p>(Fol. 30a) The following question was asked of <span class="rabbi">R. Tanchum
							of Noy</span>: “Is it permissible to extinguish the light on the Sabbath
						for the sake of a sick person ?” He began his answer by saying: “O thou
							<span class="character">King Solomon</span>! Where is thy wisdom and
						where is thy understanding? Not only do the words contradict your father's
						words but (they are at variance with) thine own utterances also. Thy father
							<span class="character">David</span> said (Ps. 116, 17.) Not the dead
						can praise the <span class="god">Lord</span>, and thou sayest (Ecc. 4, 2.)
						Thereupon praise I the dead that are already dead, and again thou sayest
						(Ib. 9., 4.) “For a living dog fareth better than a dead lion”. But this is
						not difficult to explain. When <span class="character">David</span> said.
						Not the dead can praise the <span class="god">Lord</span>, he meant thus:
							<span class="speech">“A man should always occupy himself with the study
							of the Torah and meritorious deeds before he dies; for, as soon as he
							dies, he becomes free from the obligation of (studying) the Torah and
							(fulfilling) meritorious deeds and the <span class="god">Holy One,
								praised be He</span>! accepts no praise of him.”</span> This is what
							<span class="rabbi">R. Jochanan</span> said : “'What is meant by the
						passage (Ps. 88, 61.) Free among the dead, i.e., as soon as a man dies he is
						freed from the obligation of (studying) the Torah and (fulfilling)
						meritorious deeds, And when <span class="character">Solomon</span> says
						(Ecc. 4. 2.) “Thereupon praise I the dead that are already dead,” he refers
						to the time when Israel sinned in the deserts. <span class="character"
							>Moses</span> stood up before the <span class="god">Holy One, praised be
							He</span>! and offered many prayers and supplications unto Him but was
						not answered. However, as soon as he said (Ex 32, 13.) Remember <span
							class="character">Abraham</span>, <span class="character">Isaac</span>
						and <span class="character">Israel</span>, Thy servants, he was forthwith
						answered. Now, did not <span class="character">Solomon</span> say properly
						“Thereupon praise I the dead that are already dead.””” It may be explained
						in another way also. The usage of the world is that if a mortal prince issue
						a decree, it is doubtful whether it will be complied with or not; even if it
						be complied with while the prince lives it may not be complied with when he
						is dead. But <span class="character">Moses</span>, our teacher, has issued
						many decrees and established many ordinances and they endure forever and
						ever. Now did not <span class="character">Solomon</span> say properly (Ecc.
						4, 2.) “Thereupon praise I the dead that are already dead!” The passage,
						“Thereupon praise I the dead”, etc., may also be explained in another way,
						as <span class="rabbi">R. Juda</span> said in the name of <span
							class="rabbi">Rab</span> ; for <span class="rabbi">R. Juda</span> in the
						name of <span class="rabbi">Rab</span> said : “What is meant by the passage
						(Ps. 86, 17.) “Display on me a sign for good that those who hate me may see
						it”. Thus said <span class="character">David</span> before the <span
							class="god">Holy One, praised be He</span>! <span class="speech">“<span
								class="god">Sovereign of the universe</span>, forgive me this sin
							(of <span class="character">Bath Sheba</span>).'”</span>
						<span class="speech">“Thou art forgiven.”</span> answered the <span
							class="god">Lord</span>. <span class="character">David</span> then said
						to the <span class="god">Lord</span> : “Show me a sign while I live.”
						Whereupon He answered, “During thy life I shall not make it known but during
						the life of <span class="character">Solomon</span>, thy son, I shall make it
						known.” When <span class="character">Solomon</span> had built the Temple he
						desired to place the ark in the holy of holies, but the gates had become
						fastened to each other (and they could not be opened). <span
							class="character">Solomon</span> then offered twenty-four prayer-songs
						but was not answered. He then began the prayer (Ps. 24, 7.) “Raise your
						heads, O ye gates and be raised wide, ye everlasting gates, and let the king
						of glory enter.” Thereupon the gates ran after him and opened their mouths
						and wanted to swallow him up, saying: Who is the <span class="god">King of
							glory</span>? (Ib.) <span class="character">Solomon</span> replied. The
							<span class="god">Lord</span>, strong and mighty (Ib.). “He then
						repeated Raise your heads, O ye gates, and raise up, ye everlasting doors,
						and let the King of glory enter.” Who is the <span class="god">King of
							glory</span>, the <span class="god">Lord of Hosts</span>, He is the
							<span class="god">King of glory</span>, Selah ( Ib.). Still he was not
						answered; but as soon as he said <span class="god">O Lord God</span> turn
						not away the face of thy anointed, remember the pious deeds of <span
							class="character">David</span> thy servant, (II Chr. 6, 12), he was
						immediately answered. “At that moment the faces of <span class="character"
							>David's</span> enemies turned black like the bottom of a pot and then
						it was known to all that the <span class="god">Holy One, praised be
							He</span>! had forgiven <span class="character">David</span> that sin.”
						Therefore, did not <span class="character">Solomon</span> properly say.
							<span class="speech">“Thereupon, praise I the dead, etc.”</span> This is
						meant by the passage (I Kings 8, 66.) On the eighth day he dismissed the
						people; they blessed the king and went unto their tents, glad of heart,
						because of all the good that the <span class="god">Lord</span> had done for
							<span class="character">David</span> his servant and for Israel his
						people, i.e.. And they went unto their tents, meaning they found their wives
						levitically pure. Joyful, because of having enjoyed the Divine Glory; glad
						of heart, each man's wife had become pregnant with a male child; because of
						all the good which <span class="god">God</span> had done unto <span
							class="character">David</span> his servant, that he forgave him that
						sin; and Israel his people, for they were forgiven their neglect of the
						observance of the day of Atonement. And when <span class="character"
							>Solomon</span> said (Ecc. 9, 4.)” For a living dog fareth better than a
						dead lion, he meant that which <span class="rabbi">R. Juda</span> said in
						the name of <span class="rabbi">Rab</span> ; for <span class="rabbi">R.
							Juda</span> in the name of <span class="rabbi">Rab</span>, said: “"What
						is meant by the passage (Ps. 39, 5.) Let me know, O <span class="god"
							>Lord</span>, my end, and what the measure of my days is, I wish to know
						when I shall cease to be, i.e., thus said <span class="character"
							>David</span> before the <span class="god">Holy One, praised be
							He</span>! “'<span class="god">Sovereign of the universe</span> let me
						know my end.'” Whereupon the <span class="god">Lord</span> answered him :
						“It has been decreed by me that the time of the death of mortal man shall
						not be known;” “'And the measures of my days what are they'” (Ib.), <span
							class="character">David</span> again asked. “'It is decreed by me'”
						answered the <span class="god">Lord</span>,“' that the measure of the days
						of a man shall not be known.'” Again <span class="character">David</span>
						asked: “'I wish to know when I shall cease to be.'” The <span class="god"
							>Lord</span> then said to him : “'Thou wilt die on the Sabbath.'” “'Let
						me die rather on the first day of the week,'” begged <span class="character"
							>David</span>. “'The first day of the week is the day on which thy son
							<span class="character">Solomon</span> shall be king, and one kingdom
						must not encroach on the other even by so much as a hair's breath.'” “'Let
						me then die on the Sabbath eve,'” pleaded <span class="character"
							>David</span>. Whereupon the <span class="god">Lord</span> said Far
						better is a day in thy courts than a thousand (Ps. 84, 11), i.e., “'I like
						one day in which thou art studying the Torah better than a thousand burnt
						offerings which <span class="character">Solomon</span>, thy son, will
						sacrifice before me upon the altar.'” (Ib. b) Each Sabbath day he would sit
						and study. On that Sabbath when he was to die, the <span class="character"
							>angel of death</span> came and stood before him, but was unable to do
						anything because <span class="character">David</span> never once ceased
						studying. (Said the <span class="character">angel</span> to himself) <span
							class="speech">“What shall I do?”</span> There was an orchard in the
						back of <span class="character">David's</span> house; the <span
							class="character">angel of death</span> went there and shook the trees.
							<span class="character">David</span> (hearing the noise) went out to see
						(the cause of the noise) ; as he ascended the ladder the <span
							class="character">angel</span> caused it to break. <span
							class="character">David</span> fell down and consequently stopped
						studying; whereupon the <span class="character">angel of death</span> took
						his life. It so happened that <span class="character">Solomon</span> sent to
						ask the following questions in the academy: “My father died and lies in sun;
						what shall I do? (Am I allowed to remove him from the sun?) And the dogs of
						my father's house are hungry, what shall I do?” They answered him: “Cut up a
						carrion and place the pieces before the dogs. As to thy father, place a loaf
						of bread or an infant upon his body and then you may carry it away from the
						sun.” Did not <span class="character">Solomon</span>, therefore, say
						properly? <span class="speech">“For a living dog fareth better than a dead
							lion.”</span> And as to the question, which I have been asked in your
						presence, I say this: a lamp is called Ner and the soul is called Ner; it is
						better that a human light (lamp) be extinguished than that <span class="god"
							>God's</span> light (life) be extinguished.”</p>
					<h3> Midrash Ein Yaakov Glick Edition Menachot 4:3 </h3>
					<p>
						<span class="rabbi">R. Eliezer b. Jacob</span> says: “Whoever wears
						Phylacteries upon his head, Phylacteries upon his hand, fringes on his cloak
						and has a Mezuzah on his door-post, these all will preserve him from sin, as
						it is said (Ecc. 4, 12) And a threefold cord is not quickly broken, and
						again there is another verse (Ps. 24, 8) The angel of the <span class="god"
							>Lord</span> encampeth round about them that fear the <span class="god"
							>Lord</span>.”</p>
					<h3> Midrash Ein Yaakov Glick Edition Sanhedrin 11:105 </h3>
					<p>
						<span class="rabbi">R. Dusthai</span>, of the city of Biri, lectured: “Unto
						what may be likened the system of <span class="character">David's</span>
						praver?” “Unto a peddler who wanted to sell out his stock little by little.
						He said before the <span class="god">Holy One, praised be He</span>! (Ps.
						19,13-15) "Sovereign of the Universe, who can guard against errors?" And he
						was answered, <span class="speech">“They will be forgiven.”</span> ( Ib.)
						"From secrets (faults) do Thou cleanse me." <span class="speech">“They will
							be forgiven.”</span> (Ib.) “Also from presumptuous sins withhold Thy
						servants.” <span class="speech">“This will (also) be forgiven.”</span> (Ib.)
						“Let them not have dominion over me,” i.e., the <span class="character"
							>Rabbis</span> shall not talk about me. “This will (also) be allowed to
						you.” (Ib.) “'Then shall I be blameless,'” i.e., my sins shall not be
						written. And he was answered, “'This is impossible, for, if the Yud which I
						took away from the name of <span class="character">Sarai</span> complained
						before me several years, until <span class="character">Joshua</span> came
						and I added it to his name, as it is said (Num. 13, 16) And <span
							class="character">Moses</span> called <span class="character"
							>Hoshea</span>; the son of <span class="character">Nun</span>, <span
							class="character">Joshua</span>, how much more (will there be
						complaints) if I omit a whole portion of the Torah?'” (Ps. 19) Clear from
						any great transgression, i.e., He said before him : “<span class="god"
							>Sovereign of the Universe</span>, forgive me the whole sin.” And he was
						answered, “It is revealed before Me what <span class="character"
							>Solomon</span>, thy son, will say in his wisdom in the future (Pr. 6,
						27-30) “Can a man take fire in his bosom, and his clothes not be burnt? Or
						can one walk upon hot coals, and shall his feet not be scorched? So he that
						goeth in to his neighbor's wife; whosoever touches her shall not go
						unpunished”.” He then exclaimed, “If so, then I am lost.” And he was
						answered : “Accept affliction upon thyself.” Immediately <span
							class="character">David</span> accepted affliction upon himself.” <span
							class="rabbi">R. Juda</span> said in the name of <span class="rabbi"
							>Rab</span>: “Six months was <span class="character">David</span>
						afflicted with leprosy; the Shechina left him, and the Sanhedrin separated
						themselves from him. He was inflicted with leprosy, as it is written (Ps.
						51, 9) Purge me (from sin) with hyssop, etc. The Shechina left him, as it is
						written (Ib., ib., 14) “Restore unto me the gladness of Thy salvation”. The
						Sanhedrin separated themselves from him, as it is written (Ib. 119, 79) “Let
						those that fear Thee return unto me and they that know Thy testimonies”.
						That all this lasted fully six months — when do we learn it ? From the
						following passage (I Kings, 2, 11) “And the days that David reigned over
						Israel were forty years; (Ib. b) In Hebron he reigned thirty-three years
						over all Israel and Judah.” Hence we see that the six months more (which are
						counted in II Samuel) are not counted (in I Kings), and this was because the
						six months in which he was inflicted with leprosy were not counted.” (Ps.
						86, 17)“ Display on me a sign for good, etc.” Thus said <span
							class="character">David</span> before the <span class="god">Holy
							One</span>,<span class="speech">“praised be He”</span>! “<span
							class="god">Sovereign of the universe</span>, forgive me this sin (of
							<span class="character">Bath Sheba</span>).” “Thou art forgiven,”
						answered the <span class="god">Lord</span>. <span class="character"
							>David</span> then said to the <span class="god">Lord</span> : “Show me
						a sign while I live.” Whereupon He answered, “During thy life I shall not
						make it known but during the life of <span class="character">Solomon</span>,
						thy son, I shall make it known.” When <span class="character">Solomon</span>
						had built the Temple he desired to place the ark in the holy of holies, but
						the gates had become fastened to each other (and they could not be opened).
							<span class="character">Solomon</span> then offered twenty-four
						prayer-songs but was not answered. He then said the prayer (Ps. 24, 9)
						“Raise your heads, O ye gates, and raise up, ye everlasting doors, and let
						the King of glory enter. Who is the King of glory, the Lord of Hosts, He is
						the King of glory, Selah” (II Chr. 6, l2). Still he was not answered; but as
						soon as he said O <span class="god">Lord God</span>, turn not away the face
						of Thy anointed, remember the pious deeds of <span class="character"
							>David</span> Thy servant, he was immediately answered. At that moment
						the faces of <span class="character">David's</span> enemies turned black
						like the bottom of a pot and then it was known to all that the <span
							class="god">Holy One, praised be He</span>! had forgiven <span
							class="character">David</span> that sin.</p>
					<h3> Midrash Tanchuma Masei 10:1 </h3>
					<p>(Numb. 34:2), “This is the land that shall fall to you as an inheritance.”
						What is the meaning of “to you?” To you it is fitting. (The matter) is
						comparable to a king who had male and female slaves and would have his male
						slaves marry female slaves from another estate and his female slaves (marry)
						male salves from a different estate.30 The <span class="character"
							>king</span> stopped and reflected. He said, <span class="speech">“The
							male slaves are mine and the female slaves are mine. It would be better
							for me to marry my male slaves ('avadim) to my female slaves, my own to
							my own.”</span> Similarly the <span class="god">Holy One, blessed be
							He</span>, said, “The land is Mine, as stated in (Ps. 24:1), “The land
						is the <span class="god">Lord's</span> and all that is in it.” Moreover
						Israel is Mine, as stated (in Lev. 25:55), “For to Me the Children of Israel
						are servants ('avadim).” (It is) better for Me to bequeath My land to my
						servants who belong to Me, My own to My own.” It is therefore stated (in
						Numb. 34:2),“ this is the land that shall fall to you.” Another
						interpretation (of Numb. 34:2), ““this is the land””: This text is related
						(to Ps. 111:6), ““He revealed to His people His powerful works.”” The <span
							class="god">Holy One, blessed be He</span>, said to Israel, <span
							class="speech">“I could have created a different desirable land for you.
							But in order to show you My strength, I am expelling your enemies in
							front of you and giving you their land, to fulfill that which is stated,
							“He revealed His powerful works....””</span>
					</p>
					<h3> Midrash Tanchuma Beshalach 11:2 </h3>
					<p>A mortal king is praised as mighty, though he may be weak, and as rich,
						merciful, and handsome, because they wish to flatter him. But concerning the
							<span class="god">Holy One, blessed be He</span>, they say: The <span
							class="god">great God</span>, the <span class="god"> mighty God</span>,
						and the awful (Deut. 10:17); “The Lord will go forth as a mighty man” (Isa.
						42:13); “There is none like unto thee, O Lord” (Jer. 10:6). They say He is
						rich, and indeed there are no limits to his wealth, “For behold, unto the
						Lord thy God belongeth the heaven, and the heaven of heavens” (Deut. 10:14).
						And it is written also: “The sea is His, and He made it, and His hands
						formed the dry land” (Ps. 95:5); “The earth is the Lord’s, and the fullness
						thereof” (ibid. 24:1); “Mine is the silver, and Mine is the gold” (Hag.
						2:8); “Behold, all souls are Mine; as the soul of the father, so also the
						soul of the son” (Ezek. 18:4).</p>
					<h3> Midrash Tanchuma Ki Tisa 14:3 </h3>
					<p>
						<span class="rabbi">R. Nehemiah</span> declared: “When we examine our
						actions, we are filled with shame. Usually when a man gives his field to a
						tenant to work, the tenant supplies the seed and the labor, and they share
						equally in the produce. But the <span class="god">Holy One, blessed be
							He</span>, of whom it is written: “The Earth is the Lord’s and the
						fullness thereof” (Ps. 24:1), causes the rain and the dew to descend and
						protects everything, yet He desires only one tenth as tithe and one fiftieth
						as the priestly offering. Hence, “Unto Thee, O Lord, belongeth
						righteousness, but unto us confusion of face” (Dan. 9:7).” <span
							class="rabbi">R. Yosé</span> said: “Was there a more shameful act than
						this? Israel crossed the Red Sea, and the idol <span class="character"
							>Micah</span> (had made) was carried with them when, as it is said: And
						over the tree affliction shall pass (Zech. 10:11). Nevertheless the sea
						split asunder for them. Therefore, “Unto Thee, O Lord, belongeth
						righteousness, but unto us confusion of face.””</p>
				</div>
			</section></div>
	</body>
</html>
