<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Story of Sarah Midrashim</title>
		<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="midrash.css" />
		<script type="text/javascript" src="3_8.js"></script>
	</head>
	<body>
		<h1>Midrash Meets the Story of Sarah</h1>
		<!--#include virtual="navBar.xhtml" -->
		<div id="tale">
			<section id="page">
				<div id="aside">
					<div id="side">
						<p><label for="rabbi"><input type="checkbox" name="ref" id="rabbi"
						/>Rabbis</label></p>
						<p><label for="character"><input type="checkbox" name="ref" id="character"
						/>Characters</label></p>
						<p><label for="god"><input type="checkbox" name="ref" id="god" />Words for
							God</label></p>
						<p><label for="speech"><input type="checkbox" name="speech" id="speech"
						/>Invented Speech</label></p>
					</div>
				</div>
				<div id="textwrapper">
					<h3> Bereishit Rabbah 39 </h3>
                            <p>“And the souls that they had made in Haran.” Said <span class="rabbi"
                                    >Rabbi Elazar ben Zimra</span>: Even if every creature on earth
                                conspired to create (out of nothing) even one mosquito, they could
                                not give it a soul--and you say “the souls that they had made.”
                                Therefore (they must be) they must be those who lived with them and
                                converted. And it meant “converted” why did it say “made?” In order
                                to teach you that each one who brings an idol worshipper and
                                converts him, it is as though he created him. And why did it say
                                that “they made” rather than “that he made?” Said <span
                                    class="rabbi">Rav Huna</span>: <span class="character"
                                    >Abraham</span> would convert the men, and <span
                                    class="character">Sarah</span> would convert the women. </p>
                            <h3> Bereishit Rabbah 45 </h3>
                            <p>...2. "And <span class="character">Sarai</span> said to <span
                                    class="character">Abram</span>, “Look, the Lord has kept me from
                                bearing” (Gen.16:2) as follows: “Said she, I know the source of my
                                affliction: It is not as people say (of a barren woman), “she needs
                                a talisman, she needs a charm”, but Look, the <span class="god"
                                    >Lord</span> has kept me from bearing.”" , ...<span
                                    class="rabbi">Rabbi Shimon ben Yohai</span> said “<span
                                    class="character">Hagar</span> was <span class="character"
                                    >Pharaoh's</span> daughter. When he saw the deeds on behalf of
                                    <span class="character">Sarah</span> in his house, he took his
                                daughter and gave her to him, saying, <span class="speech">“better
                                    that my daughter by a maidservant in this house than a mistress
                                    in another house.”</span> This is what is written: “She had an
                                Egyptian handmaid whose name was <span class="character"
                                    >Hagar</span>.”” (In other words:) ha agrikh: “This is your
                                reward.”And he went into <span class="character">Hagar</span> and
                                she conceived (Gen. 16:4). <span class="rabbi">Rabbi Levi bar
                                    Hayta</span> said: “She became pregnant at the first intimacy.”
                                Said <span class="rabbi">Rabbi Eleazar</span>: “A woman never
                                conceives by the first intimacy.” An objection is raised: surely it
                                is written, So both of <span class="character">Lot's</span>
                                daughters got pregnant by their father (Gen. 19:36)? Said <span
                                    class="rabbi">R. Tanhuma</span>: “By an effort of will power
                                they brought forth their virginity, and conceived at the second “act
                                of intercourse”. The first act is what they did to themselves.” Said
                                    <span class="rabbi">Rabbi Chanina ben Pazi</span>: “Thorns are
                                neither weeded nor sown, but they grow and spring up on their own.
                                But how much suffering and effort for wheat to grow! Why were the
                                matriarchs barren?” <span class="rabbi">Rabbi Levi</span> said in
                                    <span class="rabbi">Rabbi Shila’s</span> name and <span
                                    class="rabbi">Rabbi Chelbo</span> in <span class="rabbi">R.
                                    Yochanan’s</span> name: “Because the <span class="god">Holy One
                                    of Blessing</span> yearns for their prayers and supplications,
                                as it is written “O my dove, you on the clefts of the rock let Me
                                see your face, let Me hear your voice”” Song of Songs 2:14: Why did
                                I make you barren? In order to “see your face... hear your voice”.
                                    <span class="rabbi">Rabbi Azariah</span> said in the name of
                                    <span class="rabbi">Rabbi Yochanan bar Papa</span>: “So that
                                their husbands might cling to them in their beauty.” <span
                                    class="rabbi">Rabbi Huna</span> in the name of <span
                                    class="rabbi">Rabbi Hiya bar Abba</span> said: “So that they
                                might pass the greater part of their life without hard work.” <span
                                    class="rabbi">Rabbi Huna</span> and <span class="rabbi">R.
                                    Avun</span> in the name of <span class="rabbi">Rabbi
                                Meir</span>: “So that their husbands might derive pleasure from
                                them, for when a woman is with child she is disfigured and does not
                                care for her appearance.” The ninety years that <span
                                    class="character">Sarah</span> did not bear she was like a bride
                                in her canopy. Ladies would come to ask how she was, and she would
                                say to them, <span class="speech">“Go and ask about the welfare of
                                    this wretched woman (Hagar)!”</span>
                                <span class="character">Hagar</span> would tell them: <span
                                    class="speech">“My mistress <span class="character">Sarai</span>
                                    is not inside what she is outside: she appears to be righteous
                                    but she is not righteous, had she been a righteous woman, see
                                    how many years have passed without her conceiving, whereas I
                                    conceived in one night!”</span> Said <span class="character"
                                    >Sarah</span>: <span class="speech">“Am I going to argue with
                                    this woman?! I should argue with her master!...”</span>'And
                                    <span class="character">Avram</span> said to <span
                                    class="character">Sarai</span>: <span class="speech">“do it her
                                    what is good in your eyes!”</span> (Gen. 19:6) He said to her:
                                    <span class="speech">“what do I care about her well being or her
                                    harm? (But) It is written: “You will not deal with her as a
                                    slave since you humbled her” (Deuteronomy 21:14), and this one,
                                    after we made her suffer, we will enslave her? I don't care
                                    about her well being or her harm. (But) It is written “he shall
                                    not have the right to sell her to foreigners, since he broke
                                    faith with her” (Exodus 21:8) and this one, after we made her a
                                    master we will make her a slave? I don't care about her well
                                    being or her harm.”</span> Then <span class="character"
                                    >Sarai</span> treated her harshly, and she ran away from her.
                                    <span class="rabbi">Rabbi Aba bar Kahana</span> said: “she
                                forbade her from having sexual relations.” <span class="rabbi">Rabbi
                                    Berachia</span> said: “she slapped her face with a slipper.”
                                    <span class="rabbi">Rabbi Berachia</span> in the name of <span
                                    class="rabbi">Rabbi Aba Bar Kahana</span> said: “She made her
                                carry water buckets and bath towels to the baths.” And she called
                                the name of <span class="god">Ad-nai</span> who talked to her “You
                                are <span class="god">El-Roi</span>” (Gen. 16:13) <span
                                    class="rabbi">Rabbi Yehuda bar Simon</span> and <span
                                    class="rabbi">Rabbi Yochanan</span> said, in the name of <span
                                    class="rabbi">Rabbi Eleazar Bar Shimeon</span>: “The <span
                                    class="god">Holy One of Blessing</span> did not grant speaking
                                with women, with the exception of that righteous one (Sarah), and
                                even that had a particular reason.” <span class="rabbi">Rabbi
                                    Aba</span> said, in the name of <span class="rabbi">Rabbi
                                    Beiri</span>: “How many roundabouts He did in order to talk to
                                her!” He said: 'no, you did laugh!' (Gen. 18:16) But it is written:
                                “and she called the name of <span class="god">Ad-nai</span>” who
                                talked to her '“You are El-Roi”''! <span class="rabbi">Rabbi
                                    Yehoshua Bar Nechemiah</span> said: “it was through an angel.”
                                But it is written: “And God said to her”(Gen. 25:23)! Said <span
                                    class="rabbi">Rabbi Levi</span>, in the name of <span
                                    class="rabbi">Rabbi Eleazar</span>, in the name of <span
                                    class="rabbi">Rabbi Yosi ben Zimra</span>: “it was through a
                                name.” '“You are El Roi”' - said <span class="rabbi">Rabbi
                                    Aivu</span>: “You are the one who sees the sufferings of the
                                persecuted.” 'Since she said: also, here (halom)], “I have seen
                                after the One Who sees me.” She said: Not only I was granted a talk,
                                but even royalty, as it is written: “You that brought me this far”
                                (halom) (II Sam. 7:18). <span class="speech">“Not only I was granted
                                    to see with my mistress, but even if my mistress were with me
                                    right now she would not have seen.”</span> Another
                                interpretation: <span class="speech">“Not only I was granted to see
                                    with my mistress, but now even when I am alone!”</span>
                                <span class="rabbi">Rabbi Shmuel Bar Nachman</span> said: “this is
                                similar to a lady to whom the king said “pass before me”.” She
                                passed before him but was relying on her slave, and hiding her face,
                                and she did not see the king - but the slave did. </p>
                            <h3> Bereishit Rabbah 47:1 </h3>
                            <p>
                                <span class="god">God</span> said...,“Sarai your wife...” In
                                Proverbs (12:4), it is written, “A woman of valor is a crown to her
                                husband.” <span class="rabbi">Rabbi Aha</span> said, “Her husband
                                was crowned through her, but she was not crowned through her
                                husband.” Our rabbis taught that she ruled over her husband. In all
                                places, the man gives orders, but here (Genesis 21:12), “In all that
                                Sarah orders you, listen to her voice.” Said <span class="rabbi"
                                    >Rabbi Yehoshua Ben Korcha</span>: The Yud that <span
                                    class="god">the Holy One of Blessing</span> took from <span
                                    class="character">Sarai</span> was given half to <span
                                    class="character">Sarah</span>, and half to <span
                                    class="character">Avraham</span>. Said <span class="rabbi">Rabbi
                                    Shime'on Bar Yochai</span>: The Yud that <span class="god">the
                                    Holy One of Blessing</span> took from <span class="character"
                                    >Sarai</span> flew and posted itself in front of the Throne of
                                    <span class="god">the Holy One</span>, and said: <span
                                    class="speech">“<span class="god">Master of the Universe</span>!
                                    Because I am the smallest letter You took me out of the name of
                                        <span class="character">Sarai</span> the Righteous!!”</span>
                                <span class="god">The Holy One</span> said: <span class="speech">“In
                                    the past you were in the name of a woman, and in the end of the
                                    name! Now I will put you in the name of a man, and on the
                                    beginning of the name, as it is written”</span> “And <span
                                    class="character">Moshe</span> called <span class="character"
                                    >Hosea Bin Nun</span>
                                <span class="character">Yehoshua</span>” (Numbers 13:16). Said <span
                                    class="rabbi">Rabbi Mana</span>: “<span class="character"
                                    >Sarai</span> was just (a princess) for herself, now she will be
                                a princess for all the world.”</p>
                            <h3> Bereishit Rabbah 53 </h3>
                            <p>AND <span class="character">SARAH</span> SAID: “GOD HAS MADE JOY FOR
                                ME; EVERY ONE THAT HEARS WILL REJOICE WITH ME” (Gen. 21:6). <span
                                    class="rabbi">R. Berekiah</span>, <span class="rabbi">R. Judah
                                    b. R. Simon</span>, and <span class="rabbi">R. Hanan</span> in
                                the name of <span class="rabbi">R. Samuel b. R. Isaac</span> said:
                                “If <span class="character">Reuben</span> has cause to rejoice, what
                                does it matter to <span class="character">Simeon</span>? Similarly,
                                if <span class="character">Sarah</span> was remembered, what did it
                                matter to others? But when the matriarch <span class="character"
                                    >Sarah</span> was remembered (gave birth), many other barren
                                women were remembered with her; many deaf gained their hearing; many
                                blind had their eyes opened, many insane became sane. For “making”
                                (HAS MADE) is mentioned here, and also elsewhere, viz. And he made a
                                release to the provinces (Est. II, 18). As the making mentioned
                                there means that a gift was granted to the world,l so the making
                                mentioned here means that a gift was granted to the world.” <span
                                    class="rabbi">R. Levi</span> said: She increased the light of
                                the luminaries: “making” is mentioned here, viz. GOD HAS MADE FOR
                                ME, while elsewhere it says, And <span class="god">God</span> made
                                the two lights (Gen. I, 16).“AND SARAH SAW THE SON OF HAGAR THE
                                EGYPTIAN” etc - <span class="rabbi">Rabbi Shimeon bar Yohai</span>
                                said: “<span class="rabbi">Rabbi Akiva</span> used to interpret this
                                to his (Ishmael’s) shame,” <span class="rabbi">Rabbi Akiba</span>
                                lectured: “AND SARAH SAW (THE SON OF HAGAR THE EGYPTIAN, WHOM SHE
                                HAD BORNE TO AVRAHAM, MAKING SPORT.)” Now “making sport” refers to
                                nothing else but sexual immorality, as in the verse, “The Hebrew
                                servant, whom you have brought to us, came in to make sport of me.”
                                (Gen. 39:17). This teaches that <span class="character">Sarah</span>
                                saw <span class="character">Ishmael</span> ravish maidens, seduced
                                married women and dishonored them. <span class="rabbi">R.
                                    Ishmael</span> taught: This term “making sport” refers to
                                idolatry, as in the verse, “And the people sat to eat and drink and
                                got up to make sport” (Exodus 32:6). This teaches that <span
                                    class="character">Sarah</span> saw <span class="character"
                                    >Ishmael</span> build altars, catch locusts, and sacrifice them.
                                R. Eleazar said: “The term “making sport” refers to bloodshed, as in
                                the verse, “Let the young men, please, arise and make sport before
                                us” (II Sam. 2:14)” <span class="rabbi">Rabbi Azariah</span> said in
                                    <span class="rabbi">Rabbi Levi’s</span> name: <span
                                    class="character">Ishmael</span> said to <span class="character"
                                    >Isaac</span>: <span class="speech">“Let us go and see our
                                    pieces in the field”</span> and he would pick up the bow and
                                shoot arrows, aiming in <span class="character">Itzchak's</span>
                                direction, while pretending to be playing (making sport), as it is
                                written: “as a madman who casts fire-brands, arrows, and death; so
                                is the man that deceives his neighbor”, and said: “I am just joking
                                (making sport)”. And I (Rabbi Shimon bar Yochai) say that this is to
                                be interpreted to the praise (of Ishmael). This expression of making
                                sport is only used as “inheritance”. In the moment that <span
                                    class="character">Itzchak</span> our father was born all were
                                happy. <span class="character">Ishmael</span> said to them: <span
                                    class="speech">“are you dumb? I am the first-born, I am going to
                                    receive double portion”</span> (of the inheritance), that from
                                the answer of <span class="character">Sarah</span> our mother to
                                    <span class="character">Avraham</span> “because the son of this
                                maidservant will not inherit with my son, with Itzchak” you learn
                                that he would not inherit “with my son” - even if he wasn't <span
                                    class="character">Itzchak</span> - and “with <span
                                    class="character">Itzchak</span>” - even if he wasn't my son.
                                All the more so (this is true) “with my son, with <span
                                    class="character">Itzchak</span>”.</p>
                            <h3> Bereishit Rabbah 58 </h3>
                            <p>...“The sun rises and goes down”" (Ecclesiastics 1:5). <span
                                    class="rabbi">Rabbi Aba bar Kahana</span> said: “Don't we know
                                that the sun rises and goes down? Rather (this is what it means):
                                When <span class="god">the Holy One of Blessing</span> causes the
                                sun of a righteous person to set, he causes the sun of his fellow to
                                shine forth. The day that <span class="rabbi">Rabbi Akiba</span>
                                died, our rabbi <span class="rabbi">(Judah the Prince)</span> was
                                born and it was written about him “The sun rises and the sun goes
                                down.” On the day that our rabbi died <span class="rabbi">Rabbi Ada
                                    Bar Ahava</span> was born and it was written about him “The sun
                                rises and the sun goes down.” On the day that <span class="rabbi"
                                    >Rabbi Ada Bar Ahava</span> died, <span class="rabbi">Rabbi
                                    Avin</span> was born and it was written about him “The sun rises
                                and the sun goes down.” On the day that <span class="rabbi">Rabbi
                                    Avin</span> died, his son <span class="rabbi">Rabbi Avin</span>
                                was born. The day that <span class="rabbi">Rabbi Avin</span> died,
                                    <span class="rabbi">Aba Hoshaya from Traya</span> was born. The
                                day that <span class="rabbi">Aba Hoshaya</span> died <span
                                    class="rabbi">Rabbi Hoshaya</span> was born and it was written
                                about him “The sun rises and the sun goes down.” Before the sun of
                                    <span class="character">Moses</span> set the sun of <span
                                    class="character">Joshua</span> shone forth as it is written,
                                “God said to Moses, take Joshua Son of Nun” (Numbers 27:18). Before
                                the sun of <span class="character">Joshua</span> set the sun of
                                    <span class="character">Itaniel</span> son of <span
                                    class="character">Kenaz</span> shone forth as it is said,
                                “Itaniel son of Kenaz took it” (Judges 1:13). Before the sun of
                                    <span class="character">Eli</span> the priest set, the sun of
                                    <span class="character">Samuel</span> shone forth, “the lamp of
                                God had not yet gone out and Samuel lay on the sanctuary of God” (1
                                Sam 3:3). <span class="rabbi">Rabbi Yochanan</span> said, “like a
                                perfect calf.” Before the <span class="god">God</span> causes the
                                sun of <span class="character">Sarah</span> to set, he causes the
                                sun of <span class="character">Rebecca</span> to shine forth. For
                                first it says “Behold Malkah also bore children” (Gen 22:20) and
                                after “and the life Sarah was one hundred years...””<span
                                    class="rabbi">Rabbi Akiva</span> was once sitting and lecturing,
                                and the community (his students) was falling asleep. To arouse them,
                                he said: “How could <span class="character">Esther</span> rule over
                                one hundred and twenty seven provinces? It should be that <span
                                    class="character">Esther</span>, a descendant of <span
                                    class="character">Sarah</span> who lived to one hundred and
                                twenty seven, to rule over one hundred and twenty seven
                                provinces.”And <span class="character">Avraham</span> came to
                                eulogize <span class="character">Sarah</span>-From where did he
                                come? <span class="rabbi">Rabbi levi</span> said: “He came to <span
                                    class="character">Sarah</span> from the burial of <span
                                    class="character">Terach</span>.” <span class="rabbi">Rabbi
                                    Yossi</span> said to him: “And did not the burial of <span
                                    class="character">Terach</span> precede the burial of <span
                                    class="character">Sarah</span> by two years?! Rather, from where
                                did he come? From Mount Moriah.”</p>
                            <h3> Bereishit Rabbah 60 </h3>
                            <p>“And <span class="character">Isaac</span> brought her into the tent
                                of <span class="character">Sarah</span>, his mother-” All the days
                                that <span class="character">Sarah</span> was alive, a cloud was
                                connected (lit. tied) to the entrance of her tent. When she died,
                                the cloud stopped (resting at her tent.) And when <span
                                    class="character">Rebecca</span> came, the cloud returned. All
                                the days that <span class="character">Sarah</span> was alive, the
                                doors were open wide. When she died, the wideness stopped. And when
                                    <span class="character">Rebecca</span> came, the wideness
                                returned. And all the days that <span class="character">Sarah</span>
                                was alive, there was a blessing in her dough, and when <span
                                    class="character">Sarah</span> died, that blessing ended. When
                                    <span class="character">Rebecca</span> came, (the blessing)
                                returned. All the days that <span class="character">Sarah</span> was
                                alive, there was a candle that would burn from Sabbath Eve to (the
                                next) Sabbath Eve, and when she died, the candle stopped (burning
                                for so long). And when <span class="character">Rebecca</span> came,
                                (the week-long flame of the candle) returned. And as soon as (<span
                                    class="character">Isaac</span>) saw her, that she did the deeds
                                of his mother, separating her challah in purity and separating her
                                dough in purity, he brought her into the tent. <span class="rabbi"
                                    >Rabbi Yudan</span> said, “The Torah teaches you, that if a man
                                has grown-up sons, he should marry them off first and then he should
                                marry. Who do you learn (this teaching) from? From <span
                                    class="character">Abraham</span>: first, “And Isaac brought her
                                into the tent of Sarah his mother,” and afterwards, “And Abraham
                                took another wife, and her name was Keturah”.”</p>
                            <h3> Ein Yaakov Glick Edition Rosh Hashanah 1:10 </h3>
                            <p>
                                <span class="rabbi">R. Isaac</span> said: “A year which is poor
                                (Israel appears humble) in the beginning, will be rich in the end
                                (Israel's request will be granted). What is the reason for it? For
                                it is written (Deut. 11, 12) From the beginning of the year even
                                unto the end of the year; i.e., there are two parts in a year, the
                                beginning and the end."” (Ib. b) <span class="rabbi">K. Isaac</span>
                                said again: “A man is judged only according to his deeds at the time
                                of sentence; as it is said (Gen. 21, 17) God heard the voice of the
                                lad, as he then was.” Another thing <span class="rabbi">R.
                                    Isaac</span> said: “Three things cause a man's record of sins to
                                be recalled. Three occasions cause the sins of man to be brought to
                                mind : a threatening wall, calculating during prayer, and one who
                                appeals to the Lord for judgment on his neighbor; for <span
                                    class="rabbi">R. Chanin</span> said: “Whoever appeals to the
                                Lord for judgment on his neighbor is first punished; as we find in
                                the case of <span class="character">Sarah</span>, who said (Gen. 16,
                                5) I suffer wrong through thee, may the Lord judge between me and
                                thee. And shortly after this we read (Ib. 23, 2) And “<span
                                    class="character">Abraham</span> came to mourn <span
                                    class="character">Sarah</span> and to weep for her.””” Another
                                thing said <span class="rabbi">R. Isaac</span>: “Four things cause
                                an evil decree which is passed on man to be torn (annulled). They
                                are charity, prayer, change of name and change of conduct: Charity,
                                as it is written (Prov. 10, 2) “Charity delivereth from death”;
                                prayer, as it is Written (Ps. 97, 19) “They cry unto the Lord when
                                they are in distress, and He saveth them out of their afflictions”;
                                change of name, as it is written (Gen. 17, 15) “As for Sarai, thy
                                wife, thou shalt not call her name Sarai, but Sarah shall her name
                                be”: and the text continues saying: “Then will I bless her, and give
                                thee a son” also, because of her change of conduct; as it is written
                                (Jonah 3, 10) “And God saw their works that they had turned from
                                their evil ways”; and immediately following: “And God bethought
                                Himself of the evil He had said He would do unto them, and He did it
                                not.”” Some add also the change of location ; as it is said (Gen.
                                12, 1-2) “And God said to Abraham, get thee out from thy land” (and
                                afterwards) “I will make of thee a great nation”. But the former
                                authority claims that the latter one was on account of the merits of
                                the land of Israel.</p>
                            <h3> Pirkei DeRabbi Eliezer 29:5 </h3>
                            <p>
                                <span class="rabbi">Rabban Gamaliel</span>, the son of <span
                                    class="rabbi">Rabbi Jehudah the Prince</span>, said: “When our
                                father <span class="character">Abraham</span> was circumcised, on
                                the third day he was very sore, in order to test him. What did the
                                    <span class="god">Holy One, blessed be He</span>, do? He pierced
                                one hole in the midst of Gehinnom, and He made the day hot, like the
                                day of the wicked. He went forth, and sat down at the entrance of
                                the tent in the cool of the day, as it is said, “And he sat at the
                                tent door (in the heat of the day)” (Gen. 18:1). <span class="god"
                                    >The Holy One, blessed be He</span>, said to the ministering
                                angels: <span class="speech">“Come ye, let us descend and visit the
                                    sick, for the virtue of visiting the sick is great before
                                    Me.”</span>
                                <span class="god">The Holy One, blessed be He</span>, and the angels
                                descended to visit our father <span class="character"
                                >Abraham</span>, as it is said, “And the Lord appeared unto him”
                                (ibid.). <span class="god">The Holy One, blessed be He</span>, said
                                to the ministering angels: <span class="speech">“Come ye and see ye
                                    the power of circumcision. Before <span class="character"
                                        >Abraham</span> was circumcised he fell on his face (before
                                    Me), and afterwards I spake with him, as it is said, “And
                                    Abraham fell upon his face” (Gen. 17:17). Now that he is
                                    circumcised he sits and I stand.”</span> Whence do we know that
                                the <span class="god">Holy One, blessed be He</span>, was standing?
                                Because it is said, “And he looked, and, lo, three men stood over
                                against him” (Gen. 18:2).”</p>
                            <h3> Pirkei DeRabbi Eliezer 30:3 </h3>
                            <p>
                                <span class="rabbi">Rabbi Jehudah</span> said: “In that night <span
                                    class="god">the Holy One, blessed be He,</span> was revealed
                                unto him. He said to him: “<span class="character">Abraham</span>!
                                Dost thou not know that <span class="character">Sarah</span> was
                                appointed to thee for a wife from her mother's womb? She is thy
                                companion, and the wife of thy covenant; <span class="character"
                                    >Sarah</span> is not called thy handmaid, but thy wife; neither
                                is <span class="character">Hagar</span> called thy wife, but thy
                                handmaid; and all that <span class="character">Sarah</span> has
                                spoken she has uttered truthfully. Let it not be grievous in thine
                                eyes, as it is said, “And God said unto Abraham, Let it not be
                                grievous in thy sight”” (Gen. 21:12).”</p>
                            <h3> Pirkei DeRabbi Eliezer 32:3 </h3>
                            <p>How do we know (this with reference to) <span class="character"
                                    >Isaac</span>? Because it is said, “And God said, Sarah thy wife
                                shall bear thee a son indeed; and thou shalt call his name Isaac”
                                (Gen. 17:19). Why was his name called <span class="character"
                                    >Isaac</span>? Because Yad (the first Hebrew letter of Isaac
                                indicates) the ten trials wherewith our father <span
                                    class="character">Abraham</span> was tried; and he withstood
                                them all. Zaddi (the second letter indicates) the ninety (years),
                                for his mother was ninety years (at the birth of Isaac), as it is
                                said, “And shall Sarah, that is ninety years old, bear?” (Gen.
                                17:17). Cheth (the third letter points to) the eighth (day), for he
                                was circumcised on the eighth day, as it is said, “And Abraham
                                circumcised his son Isaac, being eight days old” (Gen. 21:4). Ḳuf
                                (the fourth letter of the name marks) the hundred (years), for his
                                father was an hundred years old (at Isaac's birth), as it is said,
                                “And Abraham was an hundred years old” (Gen. 21:5).</p>
				</div>
			</section>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>