<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Texts</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="storiesList.css" />
    </head>
    <body>
		<h1>Texts</h1>
        <!--#include virtual="navBar.xhtml" -->
		<div id="table"><table>
            <tr>
                <th>Title</th>
                <th>Verses</th>
                <th>Midrashim Studied (primary in bold)</th>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>Story of Sarah</td>
                <td><a href="sarahVerses.xhtml">Genesis 17:15-19</a></td>
                <td><a href="sarahMidrashim.xhtml"><b>Bereishit Rabbah</b>, Ein Yaakov, Pirkei DeRabbi Eliezer</a></td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>Binding of Isaac</td>
                <td><a href="bindingOfIsaacVerses.xhtml">Genesis 22:1-19</a></td>
                <td><a href="bindingOfIsaacMidrashim.xhtml">Bereishit Rabbah, Sefer HaYashar, Tanchuma</a></td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>The Earth is the Lord's</td>
                <td><a href="psalm24Verses.xhtml">Psalm 24:1-10</a></td>
                <td><a href="psalm24Midrashim.xhtml"><b>Ein Yaakov</b>, Tanchuma</a></td>
            </tr>
        </table></div>
		<div id="whyThisStory">
			<h2>Why These Stories?</h2>
			<p><b>Sam's Story:</b></p>
			<p>I chose to focus on Sarah because she was the first matriarch of the 
			Jewish people and I find her role as the converter of women particularly 
			compelling. I am particularly interested in her transformation from Sarai, 
			"my princess", to Sarah, a princess for all humanity. There is great power 
			in a name as per Ecclesiastes 7:1, "A good name is better than fragrant 
			oil," and I wanted to explore how the Midrash developed that idea.</p>
			<br/>
			<p><b>Ben's Story:</b></p>
			<p>I chose the story of the Binding of Isaac because, seeing as at face 
			value it involves God commanding the sacrifice of an innocent human child, 
			it is fraught with ethical questions of interest to philosophy students 
			like myself. I wanted to see how the authors of the Midrashim answered these 
			questions, if they did at all, and come to my own conclusions regarding the 
			adequacy and rationality of their answers.</p>
			<br/>
			<p><b>Thyra's Story:</b></p>
			<p>I chose to focus on Psalm 24 because that has always been one of my 
			favorite psalms. As a very musically inclined person, I have always felt 
			more drawn to the psalms and out of all of them this psalm sounds very 
			triumphant and is really fun to read.</p>
		</div>
		<div id="whyThisMidrash">
			<h2>Why These Midrashim?</h2>
			<p><b>Sam’s Midrashim:</b></p>
			<p>I primarily used the Bereishit Rabbah but also used some portions of 
			the Pirkei DeRabbi Eliezer as well as one each from the Ein Yaakov Glick 
			edition and the Midrash Tanchuma.</p>
			<p>I chose to focus on the Bereishit Rabbah, or Genesis Rabbah, because it 
			is the Midrash most centered on the book of Genesis, which is where my 
			verses come from. I assumed that the book that spoke primarily of Genesis 
			would contain the most allusions to Sarah.</p>
			<p>Several themes recurred throughout the midrashim: Sarai becoming Sarah, 
			Sarah and Hagar having disputes, Sarah becoming fertile, and Abraham 
			becoming the leader of a people, as well as women’s roles and the alphabet.</p>
			<br/>
			<p><b>Ben's Midrashim:</b></p>
			<p>I chose my Midrashim because they all attempted to make some sense of 
			the problematic features of the story of the Binding of Isaac. Tanchuma 
			offered justifications based on the prospect of God's showing mercy on 
			Isaac's descendants, God's ultimate authority, and Satan's responsibility 
			for our being uncomfortable with God's command. Bereishit Rabbah offered 
			justifications based on Abraham and Isaac's willingness to obey God, 
			Isaac's not being harmed,  and God's testing the righteous for reasons we 
			may not understand.</p>
			<br/>
			<p><b>Thyra’s Midrashim:</b></p>
			<p>I chose to focus on the 10 verses of Psalm 24 because it is a song. For me as 
			a music history major who loves music, it is really interesting to see how 
			the psalms, prayers in the form of songs,  also convey history and 
			moral stories. In my exploration of these verses, I decided to use the Ein 
			Yaakov (Glick Edition) Midrash and 3 Midrash Tanchuma passages that 
			comment on the first verse of the psalm. I chose to use these Midrashim 
			because they each comment on every line of the psalm as well as address
			the psalm as a whole. The Midrashim primarily reference the psalm in the 
			context of talking about the beginning of the world and the power God 
			has over his people.</p>
		</div>
    </body>
</html>